§ 2204b. Rural development policy(a) Coordination of nationwide rural development program using services of executive branch departments and agencies and State and local governmentsThe Secretary of Agriculture shall provide leadership within the executive branch for, and shall assume responsibility for coordinating, a nationwide rural development program using the services of executive branch departments and agencies, including, but not limited to, the agencies, bureaus, offices, and services of the Department of Agriculture, in coordination with rural development programs of State and local governments.


(b) Policy development; systematic review of Federal programs; access to information; development of process to receive and assess needs, goals, etc.; cooperative agreements to improve Federal programs affecting rural areas; public hearings and comments(1) The Secretary shall conduct a systematic review of Federal programs affecting rural areas to (A) determine whether such areas are benefiting from such programs in an equitable proportion to the benefits received by urban areas and (B) identify any factors that may restrict accessibility to such programs in rural areas or limit participation in such programs.

(2) Subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 [5 U.S.C. 552a], the Secretary may secure directly from any Federal department or agency information necessary to carry out the Secretary’s duties under this section. Upon request of the Secretary under this paragraph, the head of any such Federal department or agency shall furnish such information to the Secretary.

(3) The Secretary shall develop a process through which multistate, State, substate, and local rural development needs, goals, objectives, plans, and recommendations can be received and assessed on a continuing basis. Such process may include the use of those rural development experts, advisors, and consultants that the Secretary deems appropriate, as well as the establishment of temporary advisory committees under the terms of the Federal Advisory Committee Act.

(4) Cooperative agreements.—(A) In general.—Notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with other Federal agencies, State and local governments, and any other organization or individual to improve the coordination and effectiveness of Federal programs, services, and actions affecting rural areas, including the establishment and financing of interagency groups, if the Secretary determines that the objectives of the agreement will serve the mutual interest of the parties in rural development activities.

(B) Cooperators.—Each cooperator, including each Federal agency, to the extent that funds are otherwise available, may participate in any cooperative agreement or working group established pursuant to this paragraph by contributing funds or other resources to the Secretary to carry out the agreement or functions of the group.


(5) The Secretary may hold public hearings and receive comments on any matter that the Secretary determines may have a significant impact on rural development or the economic development of rural communities.


(c) Rural development strategy and annual updates; preparation and scope; purposes; time for updates; public hearings and suggestions and recommendations; transmittal to Congressional committees; analysis of budgetary considerations and factors; evaluation and recommendations regarding implementation and revisions(1) The Secretary shall prepare a comprehensive rural development strategy based on the needs, goals, objectives, plans, and recommendations of local communities, substate areas, States, and multistate regions, which is designed to—(A) maximize the effectiveness, increase the responsiveness, and improve the delivery of Federal programs to rural areas;

(B) increase the coordination of Federal programs with the development needs, objectives, and resources of local communities, substate areas, States, and multistate regions; and

(C) achieve the most effective combinations of Federal, State, and local resources to meet the needs of rural areas for orderly growth and development.


(2) The rural development strategy shall take into account the need to—(A) improve the economic well-being of all rural residents and alleviate the problems of low income, elderly, minority, and otherwise disadvantaged rural residents;

(B) improve the business and employment opportunities, occupational training and employment services, health care services, educational opportunities, energy utilization and availability, housing, transportation, community services, community facilities, water supplies, sewage and solid waste management systems, credit availability, and accessibility to and delivery of private and public financial resources in the maintenance and creation of jobs in rural areas;

(C) improve State and local government management capabilities, institutions, and programs related to rural development and expand educational and training opportunities for State and local officials, particularly in small rural communities;

(D) strengthen the family farm system; and

(E) maintain and protect the environment and natural resources of rural areas.


(3) The rural development strategy developed under this subsection shall be for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1982, and updated for each fiscal year thereafter.

(4) The Secretary shall hold public hearings and receive such suggestions and recommendations as the Secretary deems appropriate during the preparation of the rural development strategy and the annual updates to the strategy.

(5) The rural development strategy and the annual updates to the strategy shall be transmitted to the House Committee on Agriculture and the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry by January 31 of the calendar year immediately preceding the beginning of the appropriate fiscal year.

(6) The rural development strategy and each annual update of the strategy shall contain an analysis of the budget recommendations of the President for the fiscal year following the transmittal of the strategy or update of the strategy and of all the available budget projections of the President for subsequent fiscal years, and projections regarding the budget that are relevant or essential to the rural development policy and the rural development strategy developed under this subsection. Each annual update shall also contain a detailed statement of the findings and conclusions of the Secretary regarding the implementation during the preceding fiscal year of the rural development strategy, including any revisions of the strategy, any recommended legislation to improve the rural development effort of the Federal Government, and an evaluation of and recommendations regarding the rural development information system required under section 1926(a)(12) of this title.


(d) Strategy implementation; goalsThe Secretary shall ensure the effective implementation of the rural development strategy and maximize coordination of Federal programs affecting rural areas through a systematic effort to—(1) improve communication and encourage cooperation among Federal departments and agencies in the administration of rural development programs;

(2) eliminate conflicts, duplication, and gaps in program coverage, and resolve contradictions and inconsistencies in the objectives, administration, and effects of rural development programs;

(3) facilitate the sharing or common location of field offices of Federal agencies administering similar or complementary programs and unification of delivery systems, where feasible, to maximize convenience and accessibility of such agencies and programs to rural residents;

(4) facilitate and expedite joint funding of rural projects through Federal programs;

(5) correct administrative problems in Federal programs that delay or hinder the effective delivery of services, assistance, or benefits to rural areas; and

(6) simplify, standardize, and reduce the complexity of applications, reports, and other forms required under Federal rural development programs.


(Pub. L. 92–419, title VI, § 607, as added Pub. L. 96–355, § 2, Sept. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 1171; amended Pub. L. 104–127, title VII, § 759A, Apr. 4, 1996, 110 Stat. 1138.)


References in TextThe Privacy Act of 1974, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is Pub. L. 93–579, Dec. 31, 1974, 88 Stat. 1896, as amended, which enacted section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and provisions set out as notes under section 552a of Title 5. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 552a of Title 5 and Tables.
The Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5.

Amendments1996—Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 104–127 added par. (4) and struck out former par. (4) which read as follows: “The Secretary may undertake cooperative efforts with other Federal departments and agencies to improve the coordination and effectiveness of Federal programs, services, and actions affecting rural areas. The Secretary may request the heads of other Federal departments and agencies to participate in any working groups that the Secretary deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.”

Effective DatePub. L. 96–355, § 10, Sept. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 1176, provided that: “The provisions of this Act [enacting this section and section 2211b of this title, amending sections 1926, 2204, 2204a, 2204b–1, 2663, and 2667 of this title and section 5314 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and enacting provisions set out as a note under section 2201 of this title] shall become effective October 1, 1980.”


Termination of Reporting RequirementsFor termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec. (c)(5) of this section relating to transmittal of rural development strategy annual updates to certain committees of Congress, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66, as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and page 44 of House Document No. 103–7.


Transfer of Functions
Powers, duties, and assets of agencies, offices, and other entities within Department of Agriculture relating to rural development functions transferred to Rural Development Administration by section 2302(b) of Pub. L. 101–624.

Simplified, Uniform Application for Assistance From All Federal Rural Development ProgramsPub. L. 104–127, title VII, § 762, Apr. 4, 1996, 110 Stat. 1148, provided that: 
“Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 4, 1996], the Secretary of Agriculture shall develop a streamlined, simplified, and uniform application which shall be used in applying for assistance under all of the following:
“(1) Sections 304(b), 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 310B, and 375 [former 7 U.S.C. 2008j] and subtitle E [7 U.S.C. 2009 et seq.] of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1924(b), 1926, 1926a, 1926c, 1926d, and 1932).

“(2) Subtitle G of title XVI and sections 2281 [42 U.S.C. 5177a], 2333, and 2381 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. [former] 5901–5908, 5177a, 950aaa–2, and 3125b).

“(3) Subtitle C of title IX of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act Amendments of 1991 (Public Law 102–237:[;] 7 U.S.C. [former] 5930 note).

“(4) Section 1323(b) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (Public Law 99–198; 7 U.S.C. 1932 note).

“(5) Title V and section 603(c) of the Rural Development Act of 1972 (7 U.S.C. 2661–2669 and 2204a(c)).

“(6) Sections 5 and 311 and title IV of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. [former] 905, [former] 940a, and 941–950b).”





Executive Order No. 12720
Ex. Ord. No. 12720, July 16, 1990, 55 F.R. 29337, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 12783, Dec. 17, 1991, 56 F.R. 65977, which established the President’s Council on Rural America, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 12869, § 4(c), Sept. 30, 1993, 58 F.R. 51751, formerly set out as a note under section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


Ex. Ord. No. 13575. Establishment of the White House Rural Council
Ex. Ord. No. 13575, June 9, 2011, 76 F.R. 34841, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America and in order to enhance Federal engagement with rural communities, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Policy. Sixteen percent of the American population lives in rural counties. Strong, sustainable rural communities are essential to winning the future and ensuring American competitiveness in the years ahead. These communities supply our food, fiber, and energy, safeguard our natural resources, and are essential in the development of science and innovation. Though rural communities face numerous challenges, they also present enormous economic potential. The Federal Government has an important role to play in order to expand access to the capital necessary for economic growth, promote innovation, improve access to health care and education, and expand outdoor recreational activities on public lands.
To enhance the Federal Government’s efforts to address the needs of rural America, this order establishes a council to better coordinate Federal programs and maximize the impact of Federal investment to promote economic prosperity and quality of life in our rural communities.
Sec. 2. Establishment. There is established a White House Rural Council (Council).
Sec. 3. Membership. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture shall serve as the Chair of the Council, which shall also include the heads of the following executive branch departments, agencies, and offices:
(1) the Department of the Treasury;
(2) the Department of Defense;
(3) the Department of Justice;
(4) the Department of the Interior;
(5) the Department of Commerce;
(6) the Department of Labor;
(7) the Department of Health and Human Services;
(8) the Department of Housing and Urban Development;
(9) the Department of Transportation;
(10) the Department of Energy;
(11) the Department of Education;
(12) the Department of Veterans Affairs;
(13) the Department of Homeland Security;
(14) the Environmental Protection Agency;
(15) the Federal Communications Commission;
(16) the Office of Management and Budget;
(17) the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
(18) the Office of National Drug Control Policy;
(19) the Council of Economic Advisers;
(20) the Domestic Policy Council;
(21) the National Economic Council;
(22) the Small Business Administration;
(23) the Council on Environmental Quality;
(24) the White House Office of Public Engagement and Intergovernmental Affairs;
(25) the White House Office of Cabinet Affairs; and such other executive branch departments, agencies, and offices as the President or the Secretary of Agriculture may, from time to time, designate.
(b) A member of the Council may designate, to perform the Council functions of the member, a senior-level official who is part of the member’s department, agency, or office, and who is a full-time officer or employee of the Federal Government.
(c) The Department of Agriculture shall provide funding and administrative support for the Council to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.
(d) The Council shall coordinate its policy development through the Domestic Policy Council and the National Economic Council.
Sec. 4. Mission and Function of the Council. The Council shall work across executive departments, agencies, and offices to coordinate development of policy recommendations to promote economic prosperity and quality of life in rural America, and shall coordinate my Administration’s engagement with rural communities. The Council shall:
(a) make recommendations to the President, through the Director of the Domestic Policy Council and the Director of the National Economic Council, on streamlining and leveraging Federal investments in rural areas, where appropriate, to increase the impact of Federal dollars and create economic opportunities to improve the quality of life in rural America;
(b) coordinate and increase the effectiveness of Federal engagement with rural stakeholders, including agricultural organizations, small businesses, education and training institutions, health-care providers, telecommunications services providers, research and land grant institutions, law enforcement, State, local, and tribal governments, and nongovernmental organizations regarding the needs of rural America;
(c) coordinate Federal efforts directed toward the growth and development of geographic regions that encompass both urban and rural areas; and
(d) identify and facilitate rural economic opportunities associated with energy development, outdoor recreation, and other conservation related activities.
Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) The heads of executive departments and agencies shall assist and provide information to the Council, consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the Council. Each executive department and agency shall bear its own expense for participating in the Council.
(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

Barack Obama.



