§ 250. Warehouse receipts(a) In generalAt the request of the depositor of an agricultural product stored or handled in a warehouse licensed under this chapter, the warehouse operator shall issue a receipt to the depositor as prescribed by the Secretary.


(b) Actual storage requiredA receipt may not be issued under this section for an agricultural product unless the agricultural product is actually stored in the warehouse at the time of the issuance of the receipt.


(c) ContentsEach receipt issued for an agricultural product stored or handled in a warehouse licensed under this chapter shall contain such information, for each agricultural product covered by the receipt, as the Secretary may require by regulation.


(d) Prohibition on additional receipts or other documents(1) ReceiptsWhile a receipt issued under this chapter is outstanding and uncanceled by the warehouse operator, an additional receipt may not be issued for the same agricultural product (or any portion of the same agricultural product) represented by the outstanding receipt, except as authorized by the Secretary.


(2) Other documentsIf a document is transferred under this section, no duplicate document in any form may be transferred by any person with respect to the same agricultural product represented by the document, except as authorized by the Secretary.



(e) Electronic receipts and electronic documentsExcept as provided in section 242(h)(2) of this title, notwithstanding any other provision of Federal or State law:(1) In generalThe Secretary may promulgate regulations that authorize the issuance, recording, and transfer of electronic receipts, and the transfer of other electronic documents, in accordance with this subsection.


(2) Electronic receipt or electronic document systemsElectronic receipts may be issued, recorded, and transferred, and electronic documents may be transferred, under this subsection with respect to an agricultural product under, a system or systems maintained in one or more locations and approved by the Secretary in accordance with regulations issued under this chapter.


(3) Treatment of holderAny person designated as the holder of an electronic receipt or other electronic document issued or transferred under this chapter shall, for the purpose of perfecting the security interest of the person under Federal or State law and for all other purposes, be considered to be in possession of the receipt or other electronic document.


(4) NondiscriminationAn electronic receipt issued, or other electronic document transferred, in accordance with this chapter shall not be denied legal effect, validity, or enforceability on the ground that the information is generated, sent, received, or stored by electronic or similar means.


(5) Security interestsIf more than one security interest exists in the agricultural product that is the subject of an electronic receipt or other electronic document under this chapter, the priority of the security interest shall be determined by the applicable Federal or State law.


(6) No electronic receipt requiredA person shall not be required to issue in electronic form a receipt or document with respect to an agricultural product.


(7) Option for non-federally licensed warehouse operatorsNotwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a warehouse operator not licensed under this chapter may, at the option of the warehouse operator and in accordance with regulations established by the Secretary, issue electronic receipts and transfer other electronic documents in accordance with this chapter.


(8) Application to State-licensed warehouse operatorsThis subsection shall not apply to a warehouse operator that is licensed under State law to store agricultural commodities in a warehouse in the State if the warehouse operator elects—(A) not to issue electronic receipts authorized under this subsection; or

(B) to issue electronic receipts authorized under State law.



(Aug. 11, 1916, ch. 313, pt. C, § 11, as added Pub. L. 106–472, title II, § 201, Nov. 9, 2000, 114 Stat. 2065.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 250, acts Aug. 11, 1916, ch. 313, pt. C, § 8, 39 Stat. 487; Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 366, § 3, 46 Stat. 1463, authorized designation as bonded warehouse upon filing of bond and approval by Secretary, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by Pub. L. 106–472.
A prior section 11 of act Aug. 11, 1916, ch. 313, pt. C, was classified to section 252 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by Pub. L. 106–472.


