§ 220. Methamphetamine and methamphetamine precursor chemicals(a) Compliance with performance plan requirementsAs part of the annual performance plan required in the budget submission of the United States Customs and Border Protection under section 1115 of title 31, the Commissioner shall establish performance indicators relating to the seizure of methamphetamine and methamphetamine precursor chemicals in order to evaluate the performance goals of the United States Customs and Border Protection with respect to the interdiction of illegal drugs entering the United States.


(b) Study and report relating to methamphetamine and methamphetamine precursor chemicals(1) AnalysisThe Commissioner shall, on an ongoing basis, analyze the movement of methamphetamine and methamphetamine precursor chemicals into the United States. In conducting the analysis, the Commissioner shall—(A) consider the entry of methamphetamine and methamphetamine precursor chemicals through ports of entry, between ports of entry, through international mails, and through international courier services;

(B) examine the export procedures of each foreign country where the shipments of methamphetamine and methamphetamine precursor chemicals originate and determine if changes in the country’s customs over time provisions would alleviate the export of methamphetamine and methamphetamine precursor chemicals; and

(C) identify emerging trends in smuggling techniques and strategies.


(2) ReportNot later than September 30, 2007, and each 2-year period thereafter, the Commissioner, in the consultation with the Attorney General, United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, and the United States Department of State, shall submit a report to the Committee on Finance of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, that includes—(A) a comprehensive summary of the analysis described in paragraph (1); and

(B) a description of how the Untied 11 So in original. States Customs and Border Protection utilized the analysis described in paragraph (1) to target shipments presenting a high risk for smuggling or circumvention of the Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–177).


(3) Availability of analysisThe Commissioner shall ensure that the analysis described in paragraph (1) is made available in a timely manner to the Secretary of State to facilitate the Secretary in fulfilling the Secretary’s reporting requirements in section 722 of the Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act of 2005.



(c) DefinitionIn this section, the term “methamphetamine precursor chemicals” means the chemicals ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine, including each of the salts, optical isomers, and salts of optical isomers of such chemicals.


(Pub. L. 109–347, title VII, § 707, Oct. 13, 2006, 120 Stat. 1946.)


References in TextThe Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act of 2005, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(B), is Pub. L. 109–177, title VII, Mar. 9, 2006, 120 Stat. 256. Section 722 of the Act amended sections 2291h, 2291j, and 2291j–1 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and enacted provisions set out as a note under section 2291h of Title 22. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 801 of Title 21, Food and Drugs, and Tables.

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Security and Accountability For Every Port Act of 2006, also known as the SAFE Port Act, and not as part of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 which comprises this chapter.


Change of Name
Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


Definitions
For definition of “Commissioner” as used in this section, see section 901 of this title.


