§ 136i–2. Collection of pesticide use information(a) In generalThe Secretary of Agriculture shall collect data of statewide or regional significance on the use of pesticides to control pests and diseases of major crops and crops of dietary significance, including fruits and vegetables.


(b) CollectionThe data shall be collected by surveys of farmers or from other sources offering statistically reliable data.


(c) CoordinationThe Secretary of Agriculture shall, as appropriate, coordinate with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency in the design of the surveys and make available to the Administrator the aggregate results of the surveys to assist the Administrator.


(Pub. L. 104–170, title III, § 302, Aug. 3, 1996, 110 Stat. 1512.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996, and not as part of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act which comprises this subchapter.

Pesticide Use Information StudyPub. L. 104–170, title III, § 305, Aug. 3, 1996, 110 Stat. 1512, provided that:
“(a) The Secretary of Agriculture shall, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, prepare a report to Congress evaluating the current status and potential improvements in Federal pesticide use information gathering activities. This report shall at least include—“(1) an analysis of the quality and reliability of the information collected by the Department of Agriculture, the Environmental Protection Agency, and other Federal agencies regarding the agricultural use of pesticides; and

“(2) an analysis of options to increase the effectiveness of national pesticide use information collection, including an analysis of costs, burdens placed on agricultural producers and other pesticide users, and effectiveness in tracking risk reduction by those options.


“(b) The Secretary shall submit this report to Congress not later than 1 year following the date of enactment of this section [Aug. 3, 1996].”





