§ 7417. Referenda(a) Initial referendum(1) Optional referendumFor the purpose of ascertaining whether the persons to be covered by an order favor the order going into effect, the order may provide for the Secretary to conduct an initial referendum among persons to be subject to an assessment under section 7416 of this title who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, engaged in—(A) the production or handling of the agricultural commodity covered by the order; or

(B) the importation of the agricultural commodity.


(2) ProcedureThe results of the referendum shall be determined in accordance with subsection (e). The Secretary may require that the agricultural commodity industry involved post a bond or other collateral to cover the cost of the referendum.



(b) Required referenda(1) In generalFor the purpose of ascertaining whether the persons covered by an order favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of the order, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among persons subject to assessments under section 7416 of this title who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have engaged in—(A) the production or handling of the agricultural commodity covered by the order; or

(B) the importation of the agricultural commodity.


(2) Time for referendumThe referendum shall be conducted not later than 3 years after assessments first begin under the order.


(3) ExceptionThis subsection shall not apply if an initial referendum was conducted under subsection (a).



(c) Subsequent referendaThe Secretary shall conduct a subsequent referendum—(1) not later than 7 years after assessments first begin under the order;

(2) at the request of the board established under the order; or

(3) at the request of 10 percent or more of the number of persons eligible to vote under subsection (b)(1);


to determine if the persons favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of the order.

(d) Other referendaThe Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time to determine whether the continuation, suspension, or termination of the order or a provision of the order is favored by persons eligible to vote under subsection (b)(1).


(e) Approval of orderAn order may provide for its approval in a referendum—(1) by a majority of those persons voting;

(2) by persons voting for approval who represent a majority of the volume of the agricultural commodity; or

(3) by a majority of those persons voting for approval who also represent a majority of the volume of the agricultural commodity.


(f) Costs of referendaThe board established under an order with respect to which a referendum is conducted under this section shall reimburse the Secretary for any expenses incurred by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.


(g) Manner of conducting referenda(1) In generalA referendum conducted under this section shall be conducted in the manner determined by the Secretary to be appropriate.


(2) Advance registrationIf the Secretary determines that an advance registration of eligible voters in a referendum is necessary before the voting period in order to facilitate the conduct of the referendum, the Secretary may institute the advance registration procedures by mail, or in person through the use of national and local offices of the Department.


(3) VotingEligible voters may vote by mail ballot in the referendum or in person if so prescribed by the Secretary.


(4) NoticeNot later than 30 days before a referendum is conducted under this section with respect to an order, the Secretary shall notify the agricultural commodity industry involved, in such manner as determined by the Secretary, of the period during which voting in the referendum will occur. The notice shall explain any registration and voting procedures established under this subsection.



(Pub. L. 104–127, title V, § 518, Apr. 4, 1996, 110 Stat. 1043.)
