§ 592a. Technology research and development investment strategy for nuclear and radiological detection(a) In generalNot later than 1 year after October 13, 2006, the Secretary, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Defense, and the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to Congress a research and development investment strategy for nuclear and radiological detection.


(b) ContentsThe strategy under subsection (a) shall include—(1) a long term technology roadmap for nuclear and radiological detection applicable to the mission needs of the Department, the Department of Energy, the Department of Defense, and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence;

(2) budget requirements necessary to meet the roadmap; and

(3) documentation of how the Department, the Department of Energy, the Department of Defense, and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence will execute this strategy.


(c) Initial reportNot later than 1 year after October 13, 2006, the Secretary shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees on—(1) the impact of this title,11 See References in Text note below. and the amendments made by this title, on the responsibilities under section 182 of this title; and

(2) the efforts of the Department to coordinate, integrate, and establish priorities for conducting all basic and applied research, development, testing, and evaluation of technology and systems to detect, prevent, protect, and respond to chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear terrorist attacks.


(d) Annual reportThe Director for Domestic Nuclear Detection and the Under Secretary for Science and Technology shall jointly and annually notify Congress that the strategy and technology road map for nuclear and radiological detection developed under subsections (a) and (b) is consistent with the national policy and strategic plan for identifying priorities, goals, objectives, and policies for coordinating the Federal Government’s civilian efforts to identify and develop countermeasures to terrorist threats from weapons of mass destruction that are required under section 182(2) of this title.


(Pub. L. 109–347, title V, § 502, Oct. 13, 2006, 120 Stat. 1935.)


References in TextThis title, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is title V of Pub. L. 109–347, Oct. 13, 2006, 120 Stat. 1932, which enacted this subchapter and this section and amended sections 113 and 182 of this title. For complete classification of title V to the Code, see Tables.

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Security and Accountability For Every Port Act of 2006, also known as the SAFE Port Act, and not as part of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 which comprises this chapter.


Definitions
For definitions of terms used in this section, see section 901 of this title.


