§ 9031. Availability of nonrecourse marketing assistance loans for loan commodities(a) Definition of loan commodityIn this subchapter, the term “loan commodity” means wheat, corn, grain sorghum, barley, oats, upland cotton, extra long staple cotton, long grain rice, medium grain rice, peanuts, soybeans, other oilseeds, graded wool, nongraded wool, mohair, honey, dry peas, lentils, small chickpeas, and large chickpeas.


(b) Nonrecourse loans available(1) In generalFor each of the 2014 through 2018 crops of each loan commodity, the Secretary shall make available to producers on a farm nonrecourse marketing assistance loans for loan commodities produced on the farm.


(2) Terms and conditionsThe marketing assistance loans shall be made under terms and conditions that are prescribed by the Secretary and at the loan rate established under section 9032 of this title for the loan commodity.



(c) Eligible productionThe producers on a farm shall be eligible for a marketing assistance loan under subsection (b) for any quantity of a loan commodity produced on the farm.


(d) Compliance with conservation and wetlands requirementsAs a condition of the receipt of a marketing assistance loan under subsection (b), the producer shall comply with applicable conservation requirements under subtitle B of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3811 et seq.) and applicable wetland protection requirements under subtitle C of title XII of that Act (16 U.S.C. 3821 et seq.) during the term of the loan.


(e) Special rules for peanuts(1) In generalThis subsection shall apply only to producers of peanuts.


(2) Options for obtaining loanA marketing assistance loan under this section, and loan deficiency payments under section 9035 of this title, may be obtained at the option of the producers on a farm through—(A) a designated marketing association or marketing cooperative of producers that is approved by the Secretary; or

(B) the Farm Service Agency.


(3) Storage of loan peanutsAs a condition on the approval by the Secretary of an individual or entity to provide storage for peanuts for which a marketing assistance loan is made under this section, the individual or entity shall agree—(A) to provide the storage on a nondiscriminatory basis; and

(B) to comply with such additional requirements as the Secretary considers appropriate to accomplish the purposes of this section and promote fairness in the administration of the benefits of this section.


(4) Storage, handling, and associated costs(A) In generalTo ensure proper storage of peanuts for which a loan is made under this section, the Secretary shall pay handling and other associated costs (other than storage costs) incurred at the time at which the peanuts are placed under loan, as determined by the Secretary.


(B) Redemption and forfeitureThe Secretary shall—(i) require the repayment of handling and other associated costs paid under subparagraph (A) for all peanuts pledged as collateral for a loan that is redeemed under this section; and

(ii) pay storage, handling, and other associated costs for all peanuts pledged as collateral that are forfeited under this section.



(5) MarketingA marketing association or cooperative may market peanuts for which a loan is made under this section in any manner that conforms to consumer needs, including the separation of peanuts by type and quality.


(6) Reimbursable agreements and payment of administrative expensesThe Secretary may implement any reimbursable agreements or provide for the payment of administrative expenses under this subsection only in a manner that is consistent with those activities in regard to other loan commodities.



(Pub. L. 113–79, title I, § 1201, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 674.)


References in TextThe Food Security Act of 1985, referred to in subsec. (d), is Pub. L. 99–198, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1354. Subtitles B and C of title XII of the Act are classified generally to subchapters II (§ 3811 et seq.) and III (§ 3821 et seq.), respectively, of chapter 58 of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1985 Amendment note set out under section 1281 of this title and Tables.


