“SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF NAZI WAR CRIMINAL RECORDS INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.“(a) Definitions.—In this section the term—“(1) ‘agency’ has the meaning given such term under section 551 of title 5, United States Code;

“(2) ‘Interagency Group’ means the Nazi War Criminal Records Interagency Working Group [redesignated Nazi War Crimes and Japanese Imperial Government Records Interagency Working Group, see section 802(b)(1) of Pub. L. 106–567, set out above] established under subsection (b);

“(3) ‘Nazi war criminal records’ has the meaning given such term under section 3 of this Act; and

“(4) ‘record’ means a Nazi war criminal record.


“(b) Establishment of Interagency Group.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 8, 1998], the President shall establish the Nazi War Criminal Records Interagency Working Group, which shall remain in existence for 3 years after the date the Interagency Group is established.

“(2) Membership.—The President shall appoint to the Interagency Group individuals whom the President determines will most completely and effectively carry out the functions of the Interagency Group within the time limitations provided in this section, including the Director of the Holocaust Museum, the Historian of the Department of State, the Archivist of the United States, the head of any other agency the President considers appropriate, and no more than 4 other persons who shall be members of the public, of whom 3 shall be persons appointed under the provisions of this Act in effect on October 8, 1998..[sic] The head of an agency appointed by the President may designate an appropriate officer to serve on the Interagency Group in lieu of the head of such agency.

“(3) Initial meeting.—Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Interagency Group shall hold an initial meeting and begin the functions required under this section.


“(c) Functions.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 8, 1998], the Interagency Group shall, to the greatest extent possible consistent with section 3 of this Act—“(1) locate, identify, inventory, recommend for declassification, and make available to the public at the National Archives and Records Administration, all classified Nazi war criminal records of the United States;

“(2) coordinate with agencies and take such actions as necessary to expedite the release of such records to the public; and

“(3) submit a report to Congress, including the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight [now Committee on Oversight and Government Reform] of the House of Representatives, describing all such records, the disposition of such records, and the activities of the Interagency Group and agencies under this section.


“(d) Funding.—There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act.

