§ 1445i. Multiyear set-aside contracts for 1986 through 1990 crops of wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, and rice
Notwithstanding any other provision of law:(1) The Secretary of Agriculture may enter into multiyear set-aside contracts for a period not to extend beyond the 1990 crops. Such contracts may be entered into only as a part of the programs in effect for the 1986 through 1990 crops of wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, and rice, and only producers participating in one or more of such programs shall be eligible to contract with the Secretary under this section. Producers agreeing to a multiyear set-aside agreement shall be required to devote the set-aside acreage to vegetative cover capable of maintaining itself through such period to provide soil protection, water quality enhancement, wildlife production, and natural beauty. Grazing of livestock under this section shall be prohibited, except in areas of a major disaster, as determined by the President, if the Secretary finds there is a need for such grazing as a result of such disaster. Producers entering into agreements under this section shall also agree to comply with all applicable State and local laws and regulations governing noxious weed control.

(2) The Secretary shall provide cost-sharing incentives to farm operators for the establishment of vegetative cover, whenever a multiyear set-aside contract is entered into under this section.

(3) The Secretary may issue such regulations as the Secretary determines necessary to carry out this section.

(4) The Secretary shall carry out the program authorized by this section through the Commodity Credit Corporation.

(Pub. L. 99–198, title X, § 1010, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1454.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Food Security Act of 1985, and not as part of the Agricultural Act of 1949 which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of the 1949 Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1421 of this title and Tables.


