“Sec. 402. (a) Funds made available to State educational agencies under this title shall be used by such agencies to provide for programs of adult education and adult basic education to eligible participants aged 16 or older in need for such services who are not enrolled in elementary or secondary public schools under the jurisdiction of local educational agencies. Such programs may be provided directly by the State educational agency, or such agency may make grants, or enter into contracts, with local educational agencies, and other public or private nonprofit agencies, organizations, or institutions to provide for such programs. Funds available under this title may be used for—“(1) programs of instruction of such adult refugees in basic reading and mathematics, in development and enhancement of necessary skills, and for the promotion of literacy among such refugees;

“(2) administrative costs of planning and operating such programs of instruction;

“(3) educational support services which meet the need for such adult refugees, including guidance and counseling with regard to educational, career, and employment opportunities; and

“(4) special projects designed to operate in conjunction with existing Federal and non-Federal programs and activities to develop occupational and related skills for individuals, particularly programs authorized under the Job Training Partnership Act [29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.] or title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.] or under the Vocational Education Act of 1963 [now Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006] [20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.].


“[(b) Repealed. Pub. L. 105–220, title II, § 251(b)(1), Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1079.]

“(c) The State educational agency shall provide for the use of funds made available under this title in such manner that the maximum number of eligible participants aged 16 or older residing within the State receive education under the programs of instruction described under subsection (a).

