§ 294. Position standards and descriptions(a)(1) It shall be the duty of the committee to prescribe, revise, and (on a current basis) maintain position standards which shall apply to positions (in existence on, or established after, January 1, 1965) under the House of Representatives to which this chapter applies.

(2) The position standards shall—(A) provide for the separation of such positions into appropriate classes for pay and personnel purposes on the basis of reasonable similarity with respect to types of positions, qualification requirements of positions, and levels of difficulty and responsibility of work, and

(B) govern the placement of such positions in their respective appropriate compensation levels of the appropriate compensation schedule.



(b)(1) Subject to review and approval by the committee, the Clerk, the Sergeant at Arms, the Chief Administrative Officer, and the Inspector General of the House of Representatives, shall prepare, revise, and (on a current basis) maintain, at such times and in such form as the committee deems appropriate, position descriptions of the respective positions (in existence on, or established after, January 1, 1965) under the House of Representatives to which this chapter applies which are under their respective jurisdictions, including—(A) with respect to the Clerk, positions under the House Recording Studio,

(B) with respect to the Sergeant at Arms, the position of minority pair clerk in the House, and

(C) with respect to the Chief Administrative Officer, positions under the House Radio and Television Correspondents’ Gallery and the House Periodical Press Gallery.


(2) The position descriptions shall—(A) describe in detail the actual duties, responsibilities, and qualification requirements of the work of each of such positions,

(B) provide a position title for such position which accurately reflects such duties and responsibilities, and

(C) govern the placement of such position in its appropriate class.



(c) The Clerk, the Sergeant at Arms, the Chief Administrative Officer, and the Inspector General of the House of Representatives, shall transmit to the committee, at such times and in such form as the committee deems appropriate, all position descriptions required by subsection (b) of this section to be prepared, provided, and currently maintained by them, together with such other pertinent information as the committee may require, in order that the committee shall have, at all times, current information with respect to such position descriptions, the positions to which such descriptions apply, and related personnel matters within the purview of this chapter. Such information so transmitted shall be kept on file in the committee.

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the committee shall have authority, which may be exercised at any time in its discretion, to—(1) conduct surveys and studies of all organization units, and the positions therein, to which this chapter applies;

(2) ascertain on a current basis the facts with respect to the duties, responsibilities, and qualification requirements of any position to which this chapter applies;

(3) prepare and revise the position description of any such position;

(4) place any such position in its appropriate class and compensation level;

(5) decide whether any such position is in its appropriate class and compensation level;

(6) change any such position from one class or compensation level to any other class or compensation level whenever the facts warrant; and

(7) prescribe such organization and position titles as may be appropriate to carry out the purposes of this chapter.


All such actions of the committee shall be binding on the House officer and organization unit concerned and shall be the basis for payment of compensation and for other personnel benefits and transactions until otherwise changed by the committee.

(Pub. L. 88–652, § 5, Oct. 13, 1964, 78 Stat. 1080; Pub. L. 104–53, title I, § 108(3), (4), Nov. 19, 1995, 109 Stat. 522; Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 209(2), Aug. 20, 1996, 110 Stat. 1743.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 88–652, Oct. 13, 1964, 78 Stat. 1079, known as the House Employees Position Classification Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 291 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1996—Subsec. (b)(1)(C). Pub. L. 104–186 substituted “Chief Administrative Officer” for “Doorkeeper”.
1995—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 104–53 substituted “Chief Administrative Officer, and the Inspector General” for “Doorkeeper, and the Postmaster”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 104–53 substituted “Chief Administrative Officer, and the Inspector General” for “Doorkeeper, and the Postmaster,”.


Transfer of Functions
Certain functions of Recording Studio and Officers of House of Representatives transferred to Director of Non-legislative and Financial Services by section 7 of House Resolution No. 423, One Hundred Second Congress, Apr. 9, 1992. Director of Non-legislative and Financial Services replaced by Chief Administrative Officer of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995.


