“SEC. 535. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING GRANTS.“(a) Definitions.—As used in this section:“(1) Federal share.—The term ‘Federal share’ means, with respect to a grant awarded under subsection (b), the share of the grant that is provided from Federal funds.

“(2) Non-federal share.—The term ‘non-Federal share’ means, with respect to a grant awarded under subsection (b), the matching funds paid with funds other than funds referred to in paragraph (1), as determined by the Secretary.

“(3) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Agriculture.


“(b) In General.—“(1) Institutional capacity building grants.—For each of fiscal years 1996 through 2018, the Secretary shall make two or more institutional capacity building grants to assist 1994 Institutions with constructing, acquiring, and remodeling buildings, laboratories, and other capital facilities (including fixtures and equipment) necessary to conduct instructional activities more effectively in agriculture and sciences.

“(2) Requirements for grants.—The Secretary shall make grants under this section—“(A) on the basis of a competitive application process under which appropriate officials of 1994 Institutions may submit applications to the Secretary in such form and manner as the Secretary may prescribe; and

“(B) in such manner as to ensure geographic diversity with respect to the 1994 Institutions that are the subject of the grants.


“(3) Demonstration of need.—The Secretary shall require, as part of an application for a grant under this subsection, a demonstration of need. The Secretary may only award a grant under this subsection to an applicant that demonstrates a failure to obtain funding for a project after making a reasonable effort to otherwise obtain the funding.

“(4) Payment of non-federal share.—A grant awarded under this subsection shall be made only if the recipient of the grant pays a non-Federal share in an amount specified by the Secretary.


“(c) Authorization of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Agriculture to carry out this section, such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal years 2002 through 2018.

