§ 2081. United States Capitol Preservation Commission(a) Establishment and purposesThere is established in the Congress the United States Capitol Preservation Commission (hereinafter in this part referred to as the “Commission”) for the purposes of—(1) providing for improvements in, preservation of, and acquisitions for, the United States Capitol;

(2) providing for works of fine art and other property for display in the United States Capitol and at other locations under the control of the Congress; and

(3) conducting other activities that directly facilitate, encourage, or otherwise support any purposes specified in paragraph (1) or (2).


(b) MembershipThe Commission shall be composed of the following Members of Congress:(1) The President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, who shall be co-chairmen.

(2) The Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Joint Committee on the Library.

(3) The Chairman and the ranking minority party member of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, and the Chairman and the ranking minority party member of the Committee on House Oversight of the House of Representatives.

(4) The majority leader and the minority leader of the Senate.

(5) The majority leader and the minority leader of the House of Representatives.

(6) The Chairman of the Commission on the Bicentennial of the United States Senate and the Chairman of the Commission of the House of Representatives Bicentenary, to be succeeded upon expiration of such commissions, by a Senator or Member of the House of Representatives, as appropriate, appointed by the Senate or House of Representatives co-chairman of the Commission, respectively.

(7) One Senator appointed by the President pro tempore of the Senate and one Senator appointed by the minority leader of the Senate.

(8) One Member of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and one Member of the House of Representatives appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.


(c) DesigneesEach member of the Commission specified under subsection (b) (other than a member under paragraph (7) or (8) of such subsection) may designate a Senator or Member of the House of Representatives, as the case may be, to serve as a member of the Commission in place of the member so specified.


(d) Architect of the CapitolIn addition to the members under subsection (b), the Architect of the Capitol shall participate in the activities of the Commission, ex officio, and without the right to vote.


(e) Staff support and assistanceThe Senate Commission on Art, the House of Representatives Fine Arts Board, and the Architect of the Capitol shall provide to the Commission such staff support and assistance as the Commission may request.


(Pub. L. 100–696, title VIII, § 801, Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4608; Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 221(7), Aug. 20, 1996, 110 Stat. 1749.)

Codification
Section was classified to section 188a of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by Pub. L. 107–217, § 1, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1062.

Amendments1996—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 104–186 substituted “House Oversight” for “House Administration”.


Change of Name
Committee on House Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on House Administration of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999.


