§ 198a. Swine packer marketing contracts offered to producers(a) In generalSubject to the availability of appropriations to carry out this section, the Secretary shall establish and maintain a library or catalog of each type of contract offered by packers to swine producers for the purchase of all or part of the producers’ production of swine (including swine that are purchased or committed for delivery), including all available noncarcass merit premiums.


(b) AvailabilityThe Secretary shall make available to swine producers and other interested persons information on the types of contracts described in subsection (a), including notice (on a real-time basis if practicable) of the types of contracts that are being offered by each individual packer to, and are open to acceptance by, producers for the purchase of swine.


(c) ConfidentialityThe reporting requirements under subsections (a) and (b) shall be subject to the confidentiality protections provided under section 1636 of this title.


(d) Information collection(1) In generalThe Secretary shall—(A) obtain (by a filing or other procedure required of each individual packer) information indicating what types of contracts for the purchase of swine are available from each packer; and

(B) make the information available in a monthly report to swine producers and other interested persons.


(2) Contracted swine numbersEach packer shall provide, and the Secretary shall collect and publish in the monthly report required under paragraph (1)(B), information specifying—(A) the types of existing contracts for each packer;

(B) the provisions contained in each contract that provide for expansion in the numbers of swine to be delivered under the contract for the following 6-month and 12-month periods;

(C) an estimate of the total number of swine committed by contract for delivery to all packers within the 6-month and 12-month periods following the date of the report, reported by reporting region and by type of contract; and

(D) an estimate of the maximum total number of swine that potentially could be delivered within the 6-month and 12-month periods following the date of the report under the provisions described in subparagraph (B) that are included in existing contracts, reported by reporting region and by type of contract.



(e) ViolationsIt shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any packer to willfully fail or refuse to provide to the Secretary accurate information required under, or to willfully fail or refuse to comply with any requirement of, this section.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as necessary to carry out this section.


(Aug. 15, 1921, ch. 64, title II, § 222, as added Pub. L. 106–78, title IX, § 934(2), Oct. 22, 1999, 113 Stat. 1208.)

Termination of SectionFor termination of section by section 942 of Pub. L. 106–78, see Livestock Mandatory Reporting note set out under section 1635 of this title.


