§ 7655b. Forestry products advanced utilization research(a) EstablishmentThe Secretary shall establish a forestry and forestry products research and extension initiative to develop and disseminate science-based tools that address the needs of the forestry sector and their respective regions, forest and timberland owners and managers, and forestry products engineering, manufacturing, and related interests.


(b) ActivitiesThe initiative described in subsection (a) shall include the following activities:(1) Research conducted for purposes of—(A) wood quality improvement with respect to lumber strength and grade yield;

(B) the development of novel engineered lumber products and renewable energy from wood; and

(C) enhancing the longevity, sustainability, and profitability of timberland through sound management and utilization.


(2) Demonstration activities and technology transfer to demonstrate the beneficial characteristics of wood as a green building material, including investments in life cycle assessment for wood products.

(3) Projects designed to improve—(A) forestry products, lumber, and evaluation standards and valuation techniques;

(B) lumber quality and value-based, on-forest management techniques; and

(C) forestry products conversion and manufacturing efficiency, productivity, and profitability over the long term (including forestry product marketing).



(c) Grants(1) In generalThe Secretary shall make competitive grants to carry out the activities described in subsection (b).


(2) PrioritiesIn making grants under this section, the Secretary shall give higher priority to activities that are carried out by entities that—(A) are multistate, multiinstitutional, or multidisciplinary;

(B) have explicit mechanisms to communicate results to producers, forestry industry stakeholders, policymakers, and the public; and

(C) have—(i) extensive history and demonstrated experience in forestry and forestry products research;

(ii) existing capacity in forestry products research and dissemination; and

(iii) a demonstrated means of evaluating and responding to the needs of the related commercial sector.



(3) AdministrationIn making grants under this section, the Secretary shall follow the requirements of paragraphs (4), (7), (8), and (11)(B) of subsection (b) of section 450i of this title.


(4) TermThe term of a grant made under this section may not exceed 10 years.



(d) CoordinationThe Secretary shall ensure that any activities carried out under this section are carried out in coordination with the Forest Service, including the Forest Products Laboratory, and other appropriate agencies of the Department.


(e) ReportThe Secretary shall submit an annual report to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate describing, for the period covered by the report—(1) the research that has been conducted under paragraph (2) of subsection (b);

(2) the number of buildings the Forest Service has built with wood as the primary structural material; and

(3) the investments made by the Forest Service in green building and wood promotion.


(f) Authorization of appropriations(1) In generalThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $7,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018.


(2) Matching fundsTo the extent practicable, the Secretary shall match any funds made available under paragraph (1) with funds made available under section 1646 of title 16.



(Pub. L. 105–185, title VI, § 617, as added Pub. L. 113–79, title VII, § 7310, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 892.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 617 of Pub. L. 105–185, title VI, June 23, 1998, 112 Stat. 607, which was not classified to the Code, was repealed by Pub. L. 107–171, title VII, § 7302, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 455.


