§ 6933. Office of Risk Management(a) EstablishmentSubject to subsection (e),11 So in original. There is no subsection (e). the Secretary shall establish and maintain in the Department an independent Office of Risk Management.


(b) Functions of Office of Risk ManagementThe Office of Risk Management shall have jurisdiction over the following functions:(1) Supervision of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.

(2) Administration and oversight of all aspects, including delivery through local offices of the Department, of all programs authorized under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.).

(3) Any pilot or other programs involving revenue insurance, risk management savings accounts, or the use of the futures market to manage risk and support farm income that may be established under the Federal Crop Insurance Act or other law.

(4) Such other functions as the Secretary considers appropriate.


(c) Administrator(1) AppointmentThe Office of Risk Management shall be headed by an Administrator who shall be appointed by the Secretary.


(2) ManagerThe Administrator of the Office of Risk Management shall also serve as Manager of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.



(d) Resources(1) Functional coordinationCertain functions of the Office of Risk Management, such as human resources, public affairs, and legislative affairs, may be provided by a consolidation of such functions under the Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services.


(2) Minimum provisionsNotwithstanding paragraph (1) or any other provision of law or order of the Secretary, the Secretary shall provide the Office of Risk Management with human and capital resources sufficient for the Office to carry out its functions in a timely and efficient manner.



(Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 226A, as added Pub. L. 104–127, title I, § 194(a), Apr. 4, 1996, 110 Stat. 945.)


References in TextThe Federal Crop Insurance Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), (3), is subtitle A of title V of act Feb. 16, 1938, ch. 30, 52 Stat. 72, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 1501 et seq.) of chapter 36 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1501 of this title and Tables.


