§ 1738p. Sale, reduction, or cancellation of qualified debt to facilitate certain debt swaps(a) Authority to sell, reduce, or cancel qualified debtFor the purpose of facilitating eligible debt swaps, the President, in accordance with this section—(1) may sell to an eligible purchaser (as determined pursuant to subsection (c)(1) of this section) any qualified debt of an eligible country; or

(2) may reduce or cancel eligible debt of an eligible country upon receipt of payment from an eligible payor (as determined under subsection (c)(2) of this section).


(b) Terms and conditionsThe President shall establish the terms and conditions under which qualified debt may be sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this section.


(c) Eligible purchasers and eligible payors(1) Sales of debtQualified debt may be sold pursuant to subsection (a)(1) of this section only to a purchaser who presents plans satisfactory to the President for using the debt for the purpose of engaging in eligible debt swaps.


(2) Reduction or cancellation of debtQualified debt may be reduced or cancelled pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section only if the payor presents plans satisfactory to the President for using such reduction or cancellation for the purpose of facilitating eligible debt swaps.



(d) Debtor consultation and right of first refusal(1) ConsultationBefore selling, reducing, or canceling any qualified debt of an eligible country pursuant to this section, the President should consult with that country concerning, among other things, the amount of debt to be sold, reduced, or canceled and the uses of such debt for eligible debt swaps.


(2) Right of first refusalThe qualified debt of an eligible country may be sold, reduced, or cancelled pursuant to this section only if that country has been offered the opportunity to purchase that debt pursuant to section 1738o of this title and has not accepted that offer.



(e) LimitationIn the aggregate, not more than 40 percent of the qualified debt of an eligible country may be sold, reduced, or cancelled under this section or sold under section 1738o of this title.


(f) AdministrationThe Facility shall notify the Commodity Credit Corporation of purchasers and payors the President has determined to be eligible under subsection (c) of this section, and shall direct the corporation to carry out the sale, reduction, or cancellation of a qualified debt pursuant to this section. The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make an adjustment in its accounts to reflect such sale, reduction, or cancellation.


(g) Appropriations requirementThe authorities provided by this section may be exercised only in such amounts and to such extent as is provided in advance in appropriations Acts.


(h) Deposit of proceedsThe proceeds from the sale, reduction, or cancellation of qualified debt pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the United States Government account or accounts established for the repayment of such debt.


(i) Eligible debt swapsAs used in this section, the term “eligible debt swap” means a debt-for-development swap or debt-for-nature swap.


(July 10, 1954, ch. 469, title VI, § 617, as added Pub. L. 102–532, § 2, Oct. 27, 1992, 106 Stat. 3510.)
