§ 9014. Payment acres(a) Determination of payment acres(1) General ruleFor the purpose of price loss coverage and agriculture risk coverage when county coverage has been selected under section 9015(b)(1) of this title, but subject to subsection (e), the payment acres for each covered commodity on a farm shall be equal to 85 percent of the base acres for the covered commodity on the farm.


(2) Effect of individual coverageIn the case of agriculture risk coverage when individual coverage has been selected under section 9015(b)(2) of this title, but subject to subsection (e), the payment acres for a farm shall be equal to 65 percent of the base acres for all of the covered commodities on the farm.



(b) Treatment of generic base acres(1) In generalIn the case of generic base acres, price loss coverage payments and agriculture risk coverage payments are made only with respect to generic base acres planted to a covered commodity for the crop year.


(2) AttributionWith respect to a farm containing generic base acres, for the purpose of applying paragraphs (1)(B) and (2)(B) of subsection (a), generic base acres on the farm are attributed to a covered commodity in the following manner:(A) If a single covered commodity is planted and the total acreage planted exceeds the generic base acres on the farm, the generic base acres are attributed to that covered commodity in an amount equal to the total number of generic base acres.

(B) If multiple covered commodities are planted and the total number of acres planted to all covered commodities on the farm exceeds the generic base acres on the farm, the generic base acres are attributed to each of the covered commodities on the farm on a pro rata basis to reflect the ratio of—(i) the acreage planted to a covered commodity on the farm; to

(ii) the total acreage planted to all covered commodities on the farm.


(C) If the total number of acres planted to all covered commodities on the farm does not exceed the generic base acres on the farm, the number of acres planted to a covered commodity is attributed to that covered commodity.


(3) Treated as additional acreageWhen generic base acres are planted to a covered commodity or acreage planted to a covered commodity is attributed to generic base acres, the generic base acres are in addition to other base acres on the farm.



(c) ExclusionThe quantity of payment acres determined under subsection (a) may not include any crop subsequently planted during the same crop year on the same land for which the first crop is eligible for price loss coverage payments or agriculture risk coverage payments, unless the crop was approved for double cropping in the county, as determined by the Secretary.


(d) Effect of minimal payment acres(1) Prohibition on paymentsNotwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a producer on a farm may not receive price loss coverage payments or agriculture risk coverage payments if the sum of the base acres on the farm is 10 acres or less, as determined by the Secretary.


(2) ExceptionsParagraph (1) does not apply to a producer that is—(A) a socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher (as defined in section 2003(e) of this title); or

(B) a limited resource farmer or rancher, as defined by the Secretary.



(e) Effect of planting fruits and vegetables(1) Reduction requiredIn the manner provided in this subsection, payment acres on a farm shall be reduced in any crop year in which fruits, vegetables (other than mung beans and pulse crops), or wild rice have been planted on base acres on a farm.


(2) Price loss coverage and county coverageIn the case of price loss coverage payments and agricultural risk coverage payments using county coverage, the reduction under paragraph (1) shall be the amount equal to the base acres planted to crops referred to in such paragraph in excess of 15 percent of base acres.


(3) Individual coverageIn the case of agricultural risk coverage payments using individual coverage, the reduction under paragraph (1) shall be the amount equal to the base acres planted to crops referred to in such paragraph in excess of 35 percent of base acres.


(4) Reduction exceptionsNo reduction to payment acres shall be made under this subsection if—(A) cover crops or crops referred to in paragraph (1) are grown solely for conservation purposes and not harvested for use or sale, as determined by the Secretary; or

(B) in any region in which there is a history of double-cropping covered commodities with crops referred to in paragraph (1) and such crops were so double-cropped on the base acres, as determined by the Secretary.



(Pub. L. 113–79, title I, § 1114, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 666.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of Pub. L. 113–79, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 658, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.


