§ 2953. Reports to Congress on additional employee requirements(a) Each report, recommendation, or other communication, of an official nature, of an Executive agency which—(1) relates to pending or proposed legislation which, if enacted, will entail an estimated annual expenditure of appropriated funds in excess of $1,000,000;

(2) is submitted or transmitted to Congress or a committee thereof in compliance with law or on the initiative of the appropriate authority of the executive branch; and

(3) officially proposes or recommends the creation or expansion, either by action of Congress or by administrative action, of a function, activity, or authority of the Executive agency to be in addition to those functions, activities, and authorities thereof existing when the report, recommendation, or other communication is so submitted or transmitted;


shall contain a statement, concerning the Executive agency, for each of the first 5 fiscal years during which each additional or expanded function, activity, or authority so proposed or recommended is to be in effect, setting forth the following information—
(A) the estimated maximum additional—(i) man-years of civilian employment, by general categories of positions;

(ii) expenditures for personal services; and

(iii) expenditures for all purposes other than personal services;


which are attributable to the function, activity, or authority and which will be required to be effected by the Executive agency in connection with the performance thereof; and

(B) such other statement, discussion, explanation, or other information as is considered advisable by the appropriate authority of the executive branch or that is required by Congress or a committee thereof.


(b) Subsection (a) of this section does not apply to—(1) the Central Intelligence Agency;

(2) a Government controlled corporation; or

(3) the Government Accountability Office.


(Pub. L. 89–554, Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 413; Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b), July 7, 2004, 118 Stat. 814.)











Historical and Revision Notes


DerivationU.S. CodeRevised Statutes andStatutes at Large


 5 U.S.C. 642a.Jan. 16, 1883, ch. 27, § 11; added July 25, 1956, ch. 730, § 1, 70 Stat. 652.


In subsection (a), the words, “Executive agency” are substituted for “department, agency, or independent establishment of the executive branch of the Federal Government (including any corporation wholly owned by the United States)” in view of the definition of “Executive agency” in section 105. The exception of “a Government controlled corporation” is subsection (b) (2) is added to preserve the application to corporations wholly owned by the United States.
The exception of “the General Accounting Office” in subsection (b)(3) is added to preserve application to the executive branch.
Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.

Amendments2004—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 108–271 substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office”.


