§ 2108. Provisions relating to Senate Commission on Art(a) Authority to acquire and dispose(1) In generalThe Senate Commission on Art (referred to in this section as the “Commission”) may—(A) accept gifts of money; and

(B) acquire (by gift, purchase, or otherwise) any work of art, historical object, document, or material relating to historical matters, or exhibit, for placement or exhibition in the Senate Wing of the Capitol, the Senate Office Buildings, or in rooms, spaces, or corridors thereof.


(2) Accession or disposalAll works of art, historical objects, documents, or material related to historical matters, or exhibits, acquired by the Commission may, as determined by the Commission and after consultation with the Curatorial Advisory Board, be—(A) retained for accession to the United States Senate Collection or other use; or

(B) disposed of by sale or other transaction.


(3) Omitted


(b) Advisory boards(1) Curatorial Advisory BoardThere is established a Board which shall be chaired by the Senate Curator. The Curatorial Advisory Board shall provide advice and assistance to the Commission on the acquisition, care, and disposition of items for or within the United States Senate Collection, and on such other matters as the Commission determines appropriate.


(2) Additional advisory boards(A) In generalThe Commission, or the chairman and vice chairman acting jointly on behalf of the Commission and after giving notice to the Commission, may establish 1 or more additional advisory boards.


(B) TermThe term of existence for an additional advisory board—(i) shall be specified by the Commission but no longer than 4 years; and

(ii) shall be renewable.


(C) PurposeThe purpose of an additional advisory board shall be to provide advice and assistance to the Commission and to further the purposes of the Commission.



(3) Appointments(A) In generalSubject to subparagraph (B), the Curatorial Advisory Board and other advisory boards established by the Commission under paragraph (2) shall be composed of members appointed by the Commission, or the chairman and vice chairman acting jointly on behalf of the Commission and after giving notice to the Commission.


(B) Applicable rulesMembers appointed under subparagraph (A)—(i) shall be appointed from public and private life and shall serve at the pleasure of the Commission; and

(ii) in the case of individuals appointed to the Curatorial Advisory Board, shall be experts or have significant experience in the field of arts, historic preservation, or other appropriate fields.


Each member of the Commission may have appointed to an advisory board created by the Commission at least 1 individual requested by that member.


(4) MembersA member of a board under this subsection—(A) may, at the discretion of the Commission, be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of the official duties of the board from any funds available to the Commission in accordance with applicable Senate regulations for such expenses; and

(B) shall not, by virtue of such member’s service on the board, be deemed to be an officer, employee, or agent of the Senate and may not bind the Senate in any contract or obligation.


(5) Terms for additional advisory board membersMembers appointed to the other advisory boards created under paragraph (2) shall serve for terms as stated in their appointment, but no longer than a term of 4 years, except that any member may be reappointed upon the expiration of their term.


(6) RegulationsThe Commission, or the chairman and vice chairman acting jointly on behalf of the Commission and after giving notice to the Commission, in consultation with the Committee on Rules and Administration, may promulgate such regulations governing advisory boards established under this subsection as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection.


(7) AssistanceThe Executive Secretary of the Commission shall provide assistance to an advisory board as authorized by the Commission.



(c) Establishment of Senate Preservation Fund(1) EstablishmentThere is established in the Treasury a fund, to be known as the “Senate Preservation Fund” (in this section referred to as the “fund”), which shall consist of amounts deposited and credited under paragraph (3).


(2) Payment of costsThe fund shall be available to the Commission for the payment of acquisition and transaction costs incurred for acquisitions under subsection (a), for official activities of any advisory board established under subsection (b), for any purposes for which funds from the contingent fund of the Senate may be used under section 2107(a) of this title, and for expenditures, not to exceed $10,000 in any fiscal year, for meals and refreshments in Capitol facilities in connection with official activities of the Commission or other authorized programs or activities.


(3) Deposits, credits, and disbursements(A) DepositsThe Commission shall deposit in the fund amounts appropriated for use of the fund, gifts of money, and proceeds of transactions under subsection (a).


(B) CreditsThe Secretary of the Treasury shall credit to the fund the interest on, and the proceeds from sale or redemption of, obligations held in the fund.


(C) DisbursementsDisbursements from the fund shall be made on vouchers approved by the Commission and signed by the Executive Secretary of the Commission.



(4) Investments(A) In generalThe Secretary of the Treasury shall invest any portion of the fund that, as determined by the Commission, is not required to meet current withdrawals.


(B) Type of obligationEach investment required by this paragraph shall be made in an interest bearing obligation of the United States or an obligation guaranteed as to the principal and interest by the United States that, as determined by the Commission, has a maturity suitable for the fund.


(C) Commission approvalIn carrying out this subsection, the Secretary of the Treasury may make such purchases, sales, and redemption of obligations as may be approved by the Commission.



(5) Services and supportThe Library of Congress shall provide financial management and disbursing services and support to the Commission as may be required and mutually agreed to by the Librarian of Congress and the Executive Secretary of the Commission.


(6) AuditsThe Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct periodic audits of the Senate Preservation Fund, which shall be conducted at least once every 3 years, unless the Chairman or the Ranking Member of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate or the Secretary of the Senate requests that an audit be conducted at an earlier date, and shall report the results of each audit to the Commission.



(Pub. L. 108–83, title I, § 3, Sept. 30, 2003, 117 Stat. 1010; Pub. L. 109–55, title I, § 4, Aug. 2, 2005, 119 Stat. 568; Pub. L. 112–234, § 2(h), Dec. 28, 2012, 126 Stat. 1625.)

Codification
Section is comprised of section 3 of Pub. L. 108–83. Subsec. (a)(3) of section 3 of Pub. L. 108–83 repealed section 2106 of this title. Subsec. (d) of section 3 of Pub. L. 108–83 amended sections 2101 and 2107 of this title.
Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2004.

Amendments2012—Subsec. (c)(6). Pub. L. 112–234 substituted “periodic audits of the Senate Preservation Fund, which shall be conducted at least once every 3 years, unless the Chairman or the Ranking Member of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate or the Secretary of the Senate requests that an audit be conducted at an earlier date,” for “annual audits of the Senate Preservation Fund”.
2005—Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 109–55 substituted “for any purposes for which funds from the contingent fund of the Senate may be used under section 2107(a) of this title, and for expenditures, not to exceed $10,000 in any fiscal year, for meals and refreshments in Capitol facilities in connection with official activities of the Commission or other authorized programs or activities” for “and for any purposes for which funds from the contingent fund of the Senate may be used under section 2107(a) of this title”.


