“Sec. 3. (a) The Administrator of General Services, referred to hereafter in this Act as ‘the Administrator,’ is authorized to provide, upon request, to each President-elect and each Vice-President-elect, for use in connection with his preparations for the assumption of official duties as President or Vice President necessary services and facilities, including the following:“(1) Suitable office space appropriately equipped with furniture, furnishings, office machines and equipment, and office supplies, as determined by the Administrator, after consultation with the President-elect, the Vice-President-elect, or their designee provided for in subsection (e) of this section, at such place or places within the United States as the President-elect or Vice-President-elect shall designate.

“(2) Payment of the compensation of members of office staffs designated by the President-elect or Vice-President-elect at rates determined by them not to exceed the rate provided by the Classification Act of 1949, as amended [chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5], for grade GS–18: Provided, That any employee of any agency of any branch of the Government may be detailed to such staffs on a reimbursable basis with the consent of the head of the agency; and while so detailed such employee shall be responsible only to the President-elect or Vice-President-elect for the performance of his duties: Provided further, That any employee so detailed shall continue to receive the compensation provided pursuant to law for his regular employment, and shall retain the rights and privileges of such employment without interruption. Notwithstanding any other law, persons receiving compensation as members of office staffs under this subsection, other than those detailed from agencies, shall not be held or considered to be employees of the Federal Government except for purposes of the Civil Service Retirement Act [section 8301 et seq. of title 5], the Federal Employees’ Compensation Act [section 8501 et seq. of title 5], the Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance Act of 1954 [section 8701 et seq. of title 5], and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Act of 1959 [section 8901 et seq. of title 5].

“(3) Payment of expenses for the procurement of services of experts or consultants or organizations thereof for the President-elect or Vice-President-elect, as authorized for the head of any department by section 15 of the Administrative Expenses Act of 1946, as amended (5 U.S.C. 55a) [section 3109 of title 5].

“(4)(A) Payment of travel expenses and subsistence allowances, including rental of Government or hired motor vehicles, found necessary by the President-elect or Vice-President-elect, as authorized for persons employed intermittently or for persons serving without compensation by section 5 of the Administrative Expenses Act of 1946, as amended (5 U.S.C. 73b–2) [section 5703 of title 5], as may be appropriate;

“(B) When requested by the President-elect or Vice-President-elect or their designee, and approved by the President, Government aircraft may be provided for transition purposes on a reimbursable basis; when requested by the President-elect, the Vice-President-elect, or the designee of the President-elect or Vice-President-elect, aircraft may be chartered for transition purposes; and any collections from the Secret Service, press, or others occupying space on chartered aircraft shall be deposited to the credit of the appropriations made under section 6 of this Act.


“(5) Communications services found necessary by the President-elect or Vice-President-elect.

“(6) Payment of expenses for necessary printing and binding, notwithstanding the Act of January 12, 1895, and the Act of March 1, 1919, as amended (44 U.S.C. 111) [section 501 of title 44].

“(7) Reimbursement to the postal revenues in amounts equivalent to the postage that would otherwise be payable on mail matter referred to in subsection (d) of this section.

“(8)(A)(i) Not withstanding subsection (b), payment of expenses during the transition for briefings, workshops, or other activities to acquaint key prospective Presidential appointees with the types of problems and challenges that most typically confront new political appointees when they make the transition from campaign and other prior activities to assuming the responsibility for governance after inauguration.

“(ii) Activities under this paragraph may include interchange between such appointees and individuals who—“(I) held similar leadership roles in prior administrations;

“(II) are department or agency experts from the Office of Management and Budget or an Office of Inspector General of a department or agency; or

“(III) are relevant staff from the Government Accountability Office.


“(iii) Activities under this paragraph may include training or orientation in records management to comply with section 2203 of title 44, United States Code, including training on the separation of Presidential records and personal records to comply with subsection (b) of that section.

“(iv) Activities under this paragraph may include training or orientation in human resources management and performance-based management.

“(v) Activities under this paragraph shall include the preparation of a detailed classified, compartmented summary by the relevant outgoing executive branch officials of specific operational threats to national security; major military or covert operations; and pending decisions on possible uses of military force. This summary shall be provided to the President-elect as soon as possible after the date of the general elections held to determine the electors of President and Vice President under section 1 or 2 of title 3, United States Code.


“(B) Activities under this paragraph shall be conducted primarily for individuals the President-elect or eligible candidate (as defined in subsection (h)(4)) for President intends to nominate as department heads or appoint to key positions in the Executive Office of the President.


“(9)(A) Notwithstanding subsection (b), development of a transition directory by the Administrator of General Services Administration, in consultation with the Archivist of the United States (head of the National Archives and Records Administration) for activities conducted under paragraph (8).

“(B) The transition directory shall be a compilation of Federal publications and materials with supplementary materials developed by the Administrator that provides information on the officers, organization, and statutory and administrative authorities, functions, duties, responsibilities, and mission of each department and agency.


“(10) Notwithstanding subsection (b), consultation by the Administrator with any President-elect, Vice-President-elect, or eligible candidate (as defined in subsection (h)(4)) to develop a systems architecture plan for the computer and communications systems of the candidate to coordinate a transition to Federal systems if the candidate is elected.


“(b) The Administrator may not expend funds for the provision of services and facilities under section 3 of this Act in connection with any obligations incurred by the President-elect or Vice-President-elect—“(1) before the day following the date of the general elections held to determine the electors of President and Vice President under section 1 or 2 of title 3, United States Code; or

“(2) after 30 days after the date of the inauguration of the President-elect as President and the inauguration of the Vice-President-elect as Vice President.


“(c) The terms ‘President-elect’ and ‘Vice-President-elect’ as used in this Act shall mean such persons as are the apparent successful candidates for the office of President and Vice President, respectively, as ascertained by the Administrator following the general elections held to determine the electors of President and Vice President in accordance with title 3, United States Code, sections 1 and 2.

“(d) Each President-elect shall be entitled to conveyance within the United States and its territories and possessions of all mail matter, including airmail, sent by him in connection with his preparations for the assumption of official duties as President, and such mail matter shall be transmitted as penalty mail as provided in title 39, United States Code, section 4152 [now section 3202 of title 39]. Each Vice-President-elect shall be entitled to conveyance within the United States and its territories and possessions of all mail matter, including airmail, sent by him under his written autograph signature in connection with his preparations for the assumption of official duties as Vice President.

“(e) Each President-elect and Vice-President-elect, or eligible candidate (as defined in subsection (h)(4)) for President or Vice-President, may designate to the Administrator an assistant authorized to make on his behalf such designations or findings of necessity as may be required in connection with the services and facilities to be provided under this Act. Not more than 10 per centum of the total expenditures under this Act for any President-elect or Vice-President-elect may be made upon the basis of a certificate by him or the assistant designated by him pursuant to this section that such expenditures are classified and are essential to the national security, and that they accord with the provisions of subsections (a), (b), and (d) of this section.

“(f)(1) The President-elect should submit to the Federal Bureau of Investigation or other appropriate agency and then, upon taking effect and designation, to the agency designated by the President under section 115(b) of the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 [probably should be section 3001(c) of Pub. L. 108–458, 50 U.S.C. 3341(c)], the names of candidates for high level national security positions through the level of undersecretary of cabinet departments as soon as possible after the date of the general elections held to determine the electors of President and Vice President under section 1 or 2 of title 3, United States Code.

“(2) The responsible agency or agencies shall undertake and complete as expeditiously as possible the background investigations necessary to provide appropriate security clearances to the individuals who are candidates described under paragraph (1) before the date of the inauguration of the President-elect as President and the inauguration of the Vice-President-elect as Vice President.


“(g) In the case where the President-elect is the incumbent President or in the case where the Vice-President-elect is the incumbent Vice President, there shall be no expenditures of funds for the provision of services and facilities to such incumbent under this Act, and any funds appropriated for such purposes shall be returned to the general funds of the Treasury.

“(h)(1)(A) In the case of an eligible candidate, the Administrator—“(i) shall notify the candidate of the candidate’s right to receive the services and facilities described in paragraph (2) and shall provide with such notice a description of the nature and scope of each such service and facility; and

“(ii) upon notification by the candidate of which such services and facilities such candidate will accept, shall, notwithstanding subsection (b), provide such services and facilities to the candidate during the period beginning on the date of the notification and ending on the date of the general elections described in subsection (b)(1).


The Administrator shall also notify the candidate that sections 7601(c) and 8403(b) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 [Pub. L. 108–458; 50 U.S.C. 3342 and 5 U.S.C. 1101 note] provide additional services.

“(B) The Administrator shall provide the notice under subparagraph (A)(i) to each eligible candidate—“(i) in the case of a candidate of a major party (as defined in section 9002(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 9002(6)]), on one of the first 3 business days following the last nominating convention for such major parties; and

“(ii) in the case of any other candidate, as soon as practicable after an individual becomes an eligible candidate (or, if later, at the same time as notice is provided under clause (i)).


“(C)(i) The Administrator shall, not later than 12 months before the date of each general election for President and Vice-President (beginning with the election to be held in 2012), prepare a report summarizing modern presidential transition activities, including a bibliography of relevant resources.

“(ii) The Administrator shall promptly make the report under clause (i) generally available to the public (including through electronic means) and shall include such report with the notice provided to each eligible candidate under subparagraph (A)(i).



“(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the services and facilities described in this paragraph are the services and facilities described in subsection (a) (other than paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (7), and 8(A)(v) thereof), but only to the extent that the use of the services and facilities is for use in connection with the eligible candidate’s preparations for the assumption of official duties as President or Vice-President.

“(B) The Administrator—“(i) shall determine the location of any office space provided to an eligible candidate under this subsection;

“(ii) shall, as appropriate, ensure that any computers or communications services provided to an eligible candidate under this subsection are secure;

“(iii) shall offer information and other assistance to eligible candidates on an equal basis and without regard to political affiliation; and

“(iv) may modify the scope of any services to be provided under this subsection to reflect that the services are provided to eligible candidates rather than the President-elect or Vice-President-elect, except that any such modification must apply to all eligible candidates.


“(C) An eligible candidate, or any person on behalf of the candidate, shall not use any services or facilities provided under this subsection other than for the purposes described in subparagraph (A), and the candidate or the candidate’s campaign shall reimburse the Administrator for any unauthorized use of such services or facilities.


“(3)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an eligible candidate may establish a separate fund for the payment of expenditures in connection with the eligible candidate’s preparations for the assumption of official duties as President or Vice-President, including expenditures in connection with any services or facilities provided under this subsection (whether before such services or facilities are available under this section or to supplement such services or facilities when so provided). Such fund shall be established and maintained in such manner as to qualify such fund for purposes of section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 501(c)(4)].

“(B)(i) The eligible candidate may—“(I) transfer to any separate fund established under subparagraph (A) contributions (within the meaning of section 301(8) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(8)) [now 52 U.S.C. 30101(8)]) the candidate received for the general election for President or Vice-President or payments from the Presidential Election Campaign Fund under chapter 95 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 9001 et seq.] the candidate received for the general election; and

“(II) solicit and accept amounts for receipt by such separate fund.


“(ii) Any expenditures from the separate fund that are made from such contributions or payments described in clause (i)(I) shall be treated as expenditures (within the meaning of section 301(9) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 431(9)) [now 52 U.S.C. 30101(9)]) or qualified campaign expenses (within the meaning of section 9002(11) of such Code [26 U.S.C. 9002(11)]), whichever is applicable.

“(iii) An eligible candidate establishing a separate fund under subparagraph (A) shall (as a condition for receiving services and facilities described in paragraph (2)) comply with all requirements and limitations of section 5 in soliciting or expending amounts in the same manner as the President-elect or Vice-President-elect, including reporting on the transfer and expenditure of amounts described in subparagraph (B)(i) in the disclosures required by section 5.



“(4)(A) In this subsection, the term ‘eligible candidate’ means, with respect to any presidential election (as defined in section 9002(10) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 9002(10)])—“(i) a candidate of a major party (as defined in section 9002(6) of such Code [26 U.S.C. 9002(6)]) for President or Vice-President of the United States; and

“(ii) any other candidate who has been determined by the Administrator to be among the principal contenders for the general election to such offices.


“(B) In making a determination under subparagraph (A)(ii), the Administrator shall—“(i) ensure that any candidate determined to be an eligible candidate under such subparagraph—“(I) meets the requirements described in Article II, Section 1, of the United States Constitution for eligibility to the office of President;

“(II) has qualified to have his or her name appear on the ballots of a sufficient number of States such that the total number of electors appointed in those States is greater than 50 percent of the total number of electors appointed in all of the States; and

“(III) has demonstrated a significant level of public support in national public opinion polls, so as to be realistically considered among the principal contenders for President or Vice-President of the United States; and


“(ii) consider whether other national organizations have recognized the candidate as being among the principal contenders for the general election to such offices, including whether the Commission on Presidential Debates has determined that the candidate is eligible to participate in the candidate debates for the general election to such offices.




