§ 6. Authority of Inspector General; information and assistance from Federal agencies; unreasonable refusal; office space and equipment(a) In addition to the authority otherwise provided by this Act, each Inspector General, in carrying out the provisions of this Act, is authorized—(1) to have access to all records, reports, audits, reviews, documents, papers, recommendations, or other material available to the applicable establishment which relate to programs and operations with respect to which that Inspector General has responsibilities under this Act;

(2) to make such investigations and reports relating to the administration of the programs and operations of the applicable establishment as are, in the judgment of the Inspector General, necessary or desirable;

(3) to request such information or assistance as may be necessary for carrying out the duties and responsibilities provided by this Act from any Federal, State, or local governmental agency or unit thereof;

(4) to require by subpoena the production of all information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data in any medium (including electronically stored information, as well as any tangible thing) and documentary evidence necessary in the performance of the functions assigned by this Act, which subpoena, in the case of contumacy or refusal to obey, shall be enforceable by order of any appropriate United States district court: Provided, That procedures other than subpenas shall be used by the Inspector General to obtain documents and information from Federal agencies;

(5) to administer to or take from any person an oath, affirmation, or affidavit, whenever necessary in the performance of the functions assigned by this Act, which oath, affirmation, or affidavit when administered or taken by or before an employee of an Office of Inspector General designated by the Inspector General shall have the same force and effect as if administered or taken by or before an officer having a seal;

(6) to have direct and prompt access to the head of the establishment involved when necessary for any purpose pertaining to the performance of functions and responsibilities under this Act;

(7) to select, appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be necessary for carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the Office subject to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, and the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates;

(8) to obtain services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, at daily rates not to exceed the equivalent rate prescribed for grade GS–18 of the General Schedule by section 5332 of title 5, United States Code; and

(9) to the extent and in such amounts as may be provided in advance by appropriations Acts, to enter into contracts and other arrangements for audits, studies, analyses, and other services with public agencies and with private persons, and to make such payments as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act.


(b)(1) Upon request of an Inspector General for information or assistance under subsection (a)(3), the head of any Federal agency involved shall, insofar as is practicable and not in contravention of any existing statutory restriction or regulation of the Federal agency from which the information is requested, furnish to such Inspector General, or to an authorized designee, such information or assistance.

(2) Whenever information or assistance requested under subsection (a)(1) or (a)(3) is, in the judgment of an Inspector General, unreasonably refused or not provided, the Inspector General shall report the circumstances to the head of the establishment involved without delay.


(c) Each head of an establishment shall provide the Office within such establishment with appropriate and adequate office space at central and field office locations of such establishment, together with such equipment, office supplies, and communications facilities and services as may be necessary for the operation of such offices, and shall provide necessary maintenance services for such offices and the equipment and facilities located therein.

(d)(1)(A) For purposes of applying the provisions of law identified in subparagraph (B)—(i) each Office of Inspector General shall be considered to be a separate agency; and

(ii) the Inspector General who is the head of an office referred to in clause (i) shall, with respect to such office, have the functions, powers, and duties of an agency head or appointing authority under such provisions.


(B) This paragraph applies with respect to the following provisions of title 5, United States Code:(i) Subchapter II of chapter 35.

(ii) Sections 8335(b), 8336, 8344, 8414, 8468, and 8425(b).

(iii) All provisions relating to the Senior Executive Service (as determined by the Office of Personnel Management), subject to paragraph (2).



(2) For purposes of applying section 4507(b) of title 5, United States Code, paragraph (1)(A)(ii) shall be applied by substituting “the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (established by section 11 of the Inspector General Act) shall” for “the Inspector General who is the head of an office referred to in clause (i) shall, with respect to such office,”.


(e)(1) In addition to the authority otherwise provided by this Act, each Inspector General, any Assistant Inspector General for Investigations under such an Inspector General, and any special agent supervised by such an Assistant Inspector General may be authorized by the Attorney General to—(A) carry a firearm while engaged in official duties as authorized under this Act or other statute, or as expressly authorized by the Attorney General;

(B) make an arrest without a warrant while engaged in official duties as authorized under this Act or other statute, or as expressly authorized by the Attorney General, for any offense against the United States committed in the presence of such Inspector General, Assistant Inspector General, or agent, or for any felony cognizable under the laws of the United States if such Inspector General, Assistant Inspector General, or agent has reasonable grounds to believe that the person to be arrested has committed or is committing such felony; and

(C) seek and execute warrants for arrest, search of a premises, or seizure of evidence issued under the authority of the United States upon probable cause to believe that a violation has been committed.


(2) The Attorney General may authorize exercise of the powers under this subsection only upon an initial determination that—(A) the affected Office of Inspector General is significantly hampered in the performance of responsibilities established by this Act as a result of the lack of such powers;

(B) available assistance from other law enforcement agencies is insufficient to meet the need for such powers; and

(C) adequate internal safeguards and management procedures exist to ensure proper exercise of such powers.


(3) The Inspector General offices of the Department of Commerce, Department of Education, Department of Energy, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Homeland Security, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Department of the Interior, Department of Justice, Department of Labor, Department of State, Department of Transportation, Department of the Treasury, Department of Veterans Affairs, Agency for International Development, Environmental Protection Agency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Federal Emergency Management Agency, General Services Administration, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Office of Personnel Management, Railroad Retirement Board, Small Business Administration, Social Security Administration, and the Tennessee Valley Authority are exempt from the requirement of paragraph (2) of an initial determination of eligibility by the Attorney General.

(4) The Attorney General shall promulgate, and revise as appropriate, guidelines which shall govern the exercise of the law enforcement powers established under paragraph (1).

(5)(A) Powers authorized for an Office of Inspector General under paragraph (1) may be rescinded or suspended upon a determination by the Attorney General that any of the requirements under paragraph (2) is no longer satisfied or that the exercise of authorized powers by that Office of Inspector General has not complied with the guidelines promulgated by the Attorney General under paragraph (4).

(B) Powers authorized to be exercised by any individual under paragraph (1) may be rescinded or suspended with respect to that individual upon a determination by the Attorney General that such individual has not complied with guidelines promulgated by the Attorney General under paragraph (4).


(6) A determination by the Attorney General under paragraph (2) or (5) shall not be reviewable in or by any court.

(7) To ensure the proper exercise of the law enforcement powers authorized by this subsection, the Offices of Inspector General described under paragraph (3) shall, not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, collectively enter into a memorandum of understanding to establish an external review process for ensuring that adequate internal safeguards and management procedures continue to exist within each Office and within any Office that later receives an authorization under paragraph (2). The review process shall be established in consultation with the Attorney General, who shall be provided with a copy of the memorandum of understanding that establishes the review process. Under the review process, the exercise of the law enforcement powers by each Office of Inspector General shall be reviewed periodically by another Office of Inspector General or by a committee of Inspectors General. The results of each review shall be communicated in writing to the applicable Inspector General and to the Attorney General.

(8) No provision of this subsection shall limit the exercise of law enforcement powers established under any other statutory authority, including United States Marshals Service special deputation.

(9) In this subsection, the term “Inspector General” means an Inspector General appointed under section 3 or an Inspector General appointed under section 8G.


(f)(1) For each fiscal year, an Inspector General shall transmit a budget estimate and request to the head of the establishment or designated Federal entity to which the Inspector General reports. The budget request shall specify the aggregate amount of funds requested for such fiscal year for the operations of that Inspector General and shall specify the amount requested for all training needs, including a certification from the Inspector General that the amount requested satisfies all training requirements for the Inspector General’s office for that fiscal year, and any resources necessary to support the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency. Resources necessary to support the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency shall be specifically identified and justified in the budget request.

(2) In transmitting a proposed budget to the President for approval, the head of each establishment or designated Federal entity shall include—(A) an aggregate request for the Inspector General;

(B) amounts for Inspector General training;

(C) amounts for support of the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency; and

(D) any comments of the affected Inspector General with respect to the proposal.


(3) The President shall include in each budget of the United States Government submitted to Congress—(A) a separate statement of the budget estimate prepared in accordance with paragraph (1);

(B) the amount requested by the President for each Inspector General;

(C) the amount requested by the President for training of Inspectors General;

(D) the amount requested by the President for support for the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency; and

(E) any comments of the affected Inspector General with respect to the proposal if the Inspector General concludes that the budget submitted by the President would substantially inhibit the Inspector General from performing the duties of the office.



(Pub. L. 95–452, § 6, Oct. 12, 1978, 92 Stat. 1104; Pub. L. 100–504, title I, §§ 107, 110(a), Oct. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 2528, 2529; Pub. L. 107–296, title VIII, § 812(a), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2222; Pub. L. 110–409, §§ 8, 9, 11, 14(a), Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4313–4316.)


References in TextSection 11 of the Inspector General Act, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), probably means section 11 of the Inspector General Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95–452, which is set out in this Appendix.
The date of enactment of this subsection, referred to in subsec. (e)(7), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 107–296, which was approved Nov. 25, 2002.

Amendments2008—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 110–409, § 9(2), which directed substitution of “subpoena” for “subpena”, was executed by making the substitution for “subpena” both places it appeared, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Pub. L. 110–409, § 9(1), inserted “in any medium (including electronically stored information, as well as any tangible thing)” after “other data”.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 110–409, § 14(a), amended subsec. (d) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (d) read as follows: “For purposes of the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing the Senior Executive Service, any reference in such provisions to the ‘appointing authority’ for a member of the Senior Executive Service or for a Senior Executive Service position shall, if such member or position is or would be within the Office of an Inspector General, be deemed to be a reference to such Inspector General.”
Subsec. (e)(1). Pub. L. 110–409, § 11(1), struck out “appointed under section 3” after “each Inspector General” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (e)(9). Pub. L. 110–409, § 11(2), added par. (9).
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 110–409, § 8, added subsec. (f).
2002—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 107–296 added subsec. (e).
1988—Subsec. (a)(5) to (9). Pub. L. 100–504, § 107, added par. (5) and redesignated former pars. (5) to (8) as (6) to (9), respectively.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 100–504, § 110(a), added subsec. (d).

Effective Date of 2002 AmendmentPub. L. 107–296, title VIII, § 812(c), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2224, provided that:
“(1) In general.—Subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 25, 2002].

“(2) Initial guidelines.—Subsection (b) [enacting provisions set out as a note below] shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 25, 2002].”




Effective Date of 1988 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 100–504 effective 180 days after Oct. 18, 1988, see section 113 of Pub. L. 100–504, set out as a note under section 5 of Pub. L. 95–452 in this Appendix.

References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay RatesReferences in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of this title, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of Pub. L. 101–509, set out in a note under section 5376 of this title.

Links to Websites of Offices of Inspectors GeneralProvisions of Pub. L. 110–161, div. B, title V, § 534, div. D, title VII, § 746, div. E, title V, § 555, div. G, title V, § 522, div. I, title II, § 226, div. J, title I, § 115, div. K, title I, § 195, title II, § 234, and Pub. L. 110–116, div. A, title VIII, § 8121, formerly set out as notes under this section were transferred, and are listed in a table of similar provisions under section 8M of this Appendix.

Promulgation of Initial GuidelinesPub. L. 107–296, title VIII, § 812(b), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2223, provided that:
“(1) Definition.—In this subsection, the term ‘memoranda of understanding’ means the agreements between the Department of Justice and the Inspector General offices described under section 6(e)(3) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) (as added by subsection (a) of this section) that—“(A) are in effect on the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 25, 2002]; and

“(B) authorize such offices to exercise authority that is the same or similar to the authority under section 6(e)(1) of such Act.


“(2) In general.—Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 25, 2002], the Attorney General shall promulgate guidelines under section 6(e)(4) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) (as added by subsection (a) of this section) applicable to the Inspector General offices described under section 6(e)(3) of that Act.

“(3) Minimum requirements.—The guidelines promulgated under this subsection shall include, at a minimum, the operational and training requirements in the memoranda of understanding.

“(4) No lapse of authority.—The memoranda of understanding in effect on the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 25, 2002] shall remain in effect until the guidelines promulgated under this subsection take effect.”





Transfer of Functions
For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see section 315(a)(1) of Title 6, Domestic Security.
For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.

Establishment of Inspectors General Criminal Investigator Academy and Inspectors General Forensic LaboratoryPub. L. 106–422, § 2, Nov. 1, 2000, 114 Stat. 1873, provided that:
“(a) Inspectors General Criminal Investigator Academy.—“(1) Establishment.—There is established the Criminal Investigator Academy within the Department of the Treasury. The Criminal Investigator Academy is established for the purpose of performing investigator training services for offices of inspectors general created under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).

“(2) Executive director.—The Criminal Investigator Academy shall be administered by an Executive Director who shall report to an inspector general for an establishment as defined in section 11 of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.)—“(A) designated by the President’s Council on Integrity and Efficiency; or

“(B) if that council is eliminated, by a majority vote of the inspectors general created under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).



“(b) Inspectors General Forensic Laboratory.—“(1) Establishment.—There is established the Inspectors General Forensic Laboratory within the Department of the Treasury. The Inspectors General Forensic Laboratory is established for the purpose of performing forensic services for offices of inspectors general created under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).

“(2) Executive director.—The Inspectors General Forensic Laboratory shall be administered by an Executive Director who shall report to an inspector general for an establishment as defined in section 11 of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.)—“(A) designated by the President’s Council on Integrity and Efficiency; or

“(B) if that council is eliminated, by a majority vote of the inspectors general created under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).



“(c) Separate Appropriations Account.—[Amended section 1105 of Title 31, Money and Finance.]

“(d) Authorization of Appropriations.—There are authorized to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year thereafter.”





