“SEC. 1352. RESEARCH.“(a) Requirement.—The Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct research to examine the effects, to the extent listed in subsection (b), of grade standards and other regulations, as developed and promulgated pursuant to the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621 et seq.), and other statutes governing cosmetic appearance.

“(b) Scope of Research.—The primary goal of this research is to investigate the extent to which grade standards and other regulations governing cosmetic appearance affect pesticide use in the production of perishable commodities. The research shall also—“(1) determine pesticide application levels for United States perishable commodity production and assess trends, and factors influencing those trends, of pesticide application levels since 1975;

“(2) determine the extent to which Federal grade standards and other regulations affect pesticide use in agriculture for cosmetic appearance;

“(3) determine the effect of reducing emphasis on cosmetic appearance in grade standards and other regulations on—“(A) the application and availability of pesticides in agriculture;

“(B) the adoption of agricultural practices that result in reduced pesticide use;

“(C) production and marketing costs;

“(D) domestic and international markets and trade for perishable commodities;


“(4) determine the extent to which grade standards and other regulations reflect consumer preferences;

“(5) develop options for implementation of food marketing policies and practices that will remove obstacles that may exist to pesticide use reduction, based on the findings of research conducted under this section.


“(c) Field Research.—“(1) Length of projects.—The Secretary of Agriculture shall implement, not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 28, 1990], a minimum of three, 2-year market research projects, in at least three States, to demonstrate and evaluate the feasibility of consumer education and information programs.

“(2) Scope of field research.—Research under paragraph (1) shall be conducted to evaluate programs designed to—“(A) offer consumers choices among perishable commodities produced with different production practices;

“(B) provide consumers with information about agricultural practices used in the production of perishable commodities; or

“(C) educate the public about the relationship, as determined in the research conducted under this subtitle, between the cosmetic appearance of perishable commodities and pesticide use.



“(d) Dissemination of Results.—The Secretary of Agriculture shall disseminate to concerned parties the results obtained from prior scientifically valid research concerning Federal marketing policies and practices described in this section to avoid any duplication of effort and to ensure that current knowledge concerning such policies and practices is enhanced.

“(e) Advisory Committee.—“(1) Establishment.—The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish an advisory committee for the purpose of providing ongoing review of the implementation of the requirements in this section and providing the Secretary of Agriculture with recommendations regarding the implementation of those requirements.

“(2) Membership.—The Advisory Committee shall consist of 12 members comprised of three representatives from not-for-profit consumer organizations, three representatives from not-for-profit environmental organizations, three representatives from production agriculture and the perishable commodity grower and shipper community, and three representatives from the food retailing sector, each with experience in the policy issues discussed in this section.


“(f) Report.—The Secretary of Agriculture shall report to Congress on the research conducted under this section no later than September 30, 1992. The Secretary shall report on the research conducted under subsection (c) no later than September 30, 1993.

