§ 1182. Over-the-road bus security assistance(a) In generalThe Secretary shall establish a program for making grants to eligible private operators providing transportation by an over-the-road bus for security improvements described in subsection (b).


(b) Uses of fundsA recipient of a grant received under subsection (a) shall use the grant funds for one or more of the following:(1) Constructing and modifying terminals, garages, and facilities, including terminals and other over-the-road bus facilities owned by State or local governments, to increase their security.

(2) Modifying over-the-road buses to increase their security.

(3) Protecting or isolating the driver of an over-the-road bus.

(4) Acquiring, upgrading, installing, or operating equipment, software, or accessorial services for collection, storage, or exchange of passenger and driver information through ticketing systems or other means and for information links with government agencies, for security purposes.

(5) Installing cameras and video surveillance equipment on over-the-road buses and at terminals, garages, and over-the-road bus facilities.

(6) Establishing and improving an emergency communications system linking drivers and over-the-road buses to the recipient’s operations center or linking the operations center to law enforcement and emergency personnel.

(7) Implementing and operating passenger screening programs for weapons and explosives.

(8) Public awareness campaigns for enhanced over-the-road bus security.

(9) Operating and capital costs associated with over-the-road bus security awareness, preparedness, and response training, including training under section 1184 of this title and training developed by institutions of higher education and by nonprofit employee labor organizations, for over-the-road bus employees, including frontline employees.

(10) Chemical, biological, radiological, or explosive detection, including canine patrols for such detection.

(11) Overtime reimbursement, including reimbursement of State, local, and tribal governments for costs, for enhanced security personnel assigned to duties related to over-the-road bus security during periods of high or severe threat levels, National Special Security Events, or other periods of heightened security as determined by the Secretary.

(12) Live or simulated exercises, including those described in section 1183 of this title.

(13) Operational costs to hire, train, and employ police and security officers, including canine units, assigned to full-time security or counterterrorism duties related to over-the-road bus transportation, including reimbursement of State, local, and tribal government costs for such personnel.

(14) Development of assessments or security plans under section 1181 of this title.

(15) Such other improvements as the Secretary considers appropriate.


(c) Due considerationIn making grants under this section, the Secretary shall prioritize grant funding based on security risks to bus passengers and the ability of a project to reduce, or enhance response to, that risk, and shall not penalize private operators of over-the-road buses that have taken measures to enhance over-the-road bus transportation security prior to September 11, 2001.


(d) Department of Homeland Security responsibilitiesIn carrying out the responsibilities under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—(1) determine the requirements for recipients of grants under this section, including application requirements;

(2) select grant recipients;

(3) award the funds authorized by this section based on risk, as identified by the plans required under section 1181 of this title or assessment or plan described in subsection (f)(2); and

(4) pursuant to subsection (c), establish priorities for the use of funds for grant recipients.


(e) Distribution of grantsNot later than 90 days after August 3, 2007, the Secretary and the Secretary of Transportation shall determine the most effective and efficient way to distribute grant funds to the recipients of grants determined by the Secretary under subsection (a). Subject to the determination made by the Secretaries, the Secretary may transfer funds to the Secretary of Transportation for the purposes of disbursing funds to the grant recipient.


(f) Eligibility(1) A private operator providing transportation by an over-the-road bus is eligible for a grant under this section if the operator has completed a vulnerability assessment and developed a security plan that the Secretary has approved under section 1181 of this title. Grant funds may only be used for permissible uses under subsection (b) to further an over-the-road bus security plan.

(2) Notwithstanding the requirements for eligibility and uses in paragraph (1), prior to the earlier of 1 year after the date of issuance of final regulations requiring vulnerability assessments and security plans under section 1181 of this title or 3 years after August 3, 2007, the Secretary may award grants under this section for over-the-road bus security improvements listed under subsection (b) based upon over-the-road bus vulnerability assessments and security plans that the Secretary deems are sufficient for the purposes of this section but have not been approved by the Secretary in accordance with section 1181 of this title.


(g) Subject to certain terms and conditionsExcept as otherwise specifically provided in this section, a grant made under this section shall be subject to the terms and conditions applicable to subrecipients who provide over-the-road bus transportation under section 5311(f) of title 49 and such other terms and conditions as are determined necessary by the Secretary.


(h) Limitation on uses of fundsA grant made under this section may not be used to make any State or local government cost-sharing contribution under any other Federal law.


(i) Annual reportsEach recipient of a grant under this section shall report annually to the Secretary and on the use of such grant funds.


(j) ConsultationIn carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult with over-the-road bus operators and nonprofit employee labor organizations representing over-the-road bus employees, public safety and law enforcement officials.


(k) Authorization(1) In generalFrom the amounts appropriated pursuant to section 114(w) of title 49, there shall be made available to the Secretary to make grants under this section—(A) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;

(B) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;

(C) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2010; and

(D) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2011.


(2) Period of availabilitySums appropriated to carry out this section shall remain available until expended.



(Pub. L. 110–53, title XV, § 1532, Aug. 3, 2007, 121 Stat. 457.)
