“SEC. 802. DESIGNATION.“(a) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Agency.—The term ‘agency’ has the meaning given such term under section 551 of title 5, United States Code.

“(2) Interagency group.—The term ‘Interagency Group’ means the Nazi War Crimes and Japanese Imperial Government Records Interagency Working Group established under subsection (b).

“(3) Japanese imperial government records.—The term ‘Japanese Imperial Government records’ means classified records or portions of records that pertain to any person with respect to whom the United States Government, in its sole discretion, has grounds to believe ordered, incited, assisted, or otherwise participated in the experimentation on, and persecution of, any person because of race, religion, national origin, or political opinion, during the period beginning September 18, 1931, and ending on December 31, 1948, under the direction of, or in association with—“(A) the Japanese Imperial Government;

“(B) any government in any area occupied by the military forces of the Japanese Imperial Government;

“(C) any government established with the assistance or cooperation of the Japanese Imperial Government; or

“(D) any government which was an ally of the Japanese Imperial Government.


“(4) Record.—The term ‘record’ means a Japanese Imperial Government record.


“(b) Establishment of Interagency Group.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 27, 2000], the President shall designate the Working Group established under the Nazi War Crimes Disclosure Act (Public Law 105–246; 5 U.S.C. 552 note) to also carry out the purposes of this title with respect to Japanese Imperial Government records, and that Working Group shall remain in existence for 6 years after the date on which this title takes effect. Such Working Group is redesignated as the ‘Nazi War Crimes and Japanese Imperial Government Records Interagency Working Group’.

“(2) Membership.—[Amended Pub. L. 105–246, set out as a note below.]


“(c) Functions.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 27, 2000], the Interagency Group shall, to the greatest extent possible consistent with section 803—“(1) locate, identify, inventory, recommend for declassification, and make available to the public at the National Archives and Records Administration, all classified Japanese Imperial Government records of the United States;

“(2) coordinate with agencies and take such actions as necessary to expedite the release of such records to the public; and

“(3) submit a report to Congress, including the Committee on Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Government Reform] and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on the Judiciary and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, describing all such records, the disposition of such records, and the activities of the Interagency Group and agencies under this section.


“(d) Funding.—There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this title.

