“SEC. 18. DEFINITIONS.“For purposes of this Act:“(1) Commodities.—The term ‘commodities’ means agricultural commodities and their products that are donated by the Secretary for use by recipient agencies.

“(2) End product.—The term ‘end product’ means a food product that contains processed commodities.

“(3) The term ‘recipient agency’ means—“(A) a school, school food service authority, or other agency authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act [42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.] or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.) to operate breakfast programs, lunch programs, child care food programs, summer food service programs, or similar programs and to receive donations of agricultural commodities and their products acquired by the Secretary through price support, surplus removal, or direct purchase;

“(B) a nutrition program for the elderly authorized under title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3021 et seq.) to receive donations of agricultural commodities and their products acquired by the Secretary through price support, surplus removal, or direct purchase;

“(C) an agency or organization distributing commodities under the commodity supplemental food program established in section 4 of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 [Pub. L. 93–86] (7 U.S.C. 612c note);

“(D) any charitable institution, summer camp, or assistance agency for the food distribution program on Indian reservations authorized under section 4 of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note) to receive donations of agricultural commodities and their products acquired by the Secretary through price support, surplus removal, or direct purchase; or

“(E) an agency or organization distributing commodities under a program established in section 202 of the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 612c note) [7 U.S.C. 7502].


“(4) The term ‘State distribution agency’ means a State agency responsible for the intrastate distribution of donated commodities.

“(5) The term ‘Secretary’ means Secretary of Agriculture, unless the context specifies otherwise.

