§ 106. Assistance and services for the Vice President(a) In order to enable the Vice President to provide assistance to the President in connection with the performance of functions specially assigned to the Vice President by the President in the discharge of executive duties and responsibilities, the Vice President is authorized—(1) without regard to any other provision of law regulating the employment or compensation of persons in the Government service, to appoint and fix the pay of not more than—(A) 5 employees at rates not to exceed the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level II of the Executive Schedule of section 5313 of title 5; and in addition

(B) 3 employees at rates not to exceed the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level III of the Executive Schedule of section 5314 of title 5; and in addition

(C) 3 employees at rates not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–18 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5; and in addition

(D) such number of other employees as he may determine to be appropriate at rates not to exceed the minimum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–16 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5; and


(2) to procure, as provided in appropriation Acts, temporary or intermittent services of experts and consultants, as described in and in accordance with the first two sentences of section 3109(b) of title 5, at respective daily rates of pay for individuals which are not more than the daily equivalent of the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level II of the Executive Schedule of section 5313 of title 5.


Notwithstanding such section 3109(b), temporary services of any expert or consultant described in such section 3109(b) may be procured under paragraph (2) of this subsection for a period in excess of one year if the Vice President determines such procurement is necessary.

(b) In order to carry out the executive duties and responsibilities referred to in subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated each fiscal year to the Vice President such sums as may be necessary for—(1) the official expenses of the Office of the Vice President;

(2) the official entertainment expenses of the Vice President; and

(3) the subsistence expenses of persons in the Government service while traveling on official business in connection with the travel of the Vice President.


Sums appropriated under this subsection for expenses described in paragraphs (2) and (3) may be expended as the Vice President may determine, notwithstanding the provisions of any other law. Such sums shall be accounted for solely on the certificate of the Vice President, except that, with respect to such expenses, the Comptroller General may inspect all necessary books, documents, papers, and records relating to any such expenditures solely for the purpose of verifying that all such expenditures related to expenses in paragraph (2) or (3). The Comptroller General shall certify to Congress the fact of such verification, and shall report any such expenses not expended for such purpose.

(c) Assistance and services authorized pursuant to this section to the Vice President are authorized to be provided to the spouse of the Vice President in connection with assistance provided by such spouse to the Vice President in the discharge of the Vice President’s executive duties and responsibilities. If the Vice President does not have a spouse, such assistance and services may be provided for such purposes to a member of the Vice President’s family whom the Vice President designates.

(June 25, 1948, ch. 644, 62 Stat. 678; Oct. 15, 1949, ch. 695, § 2(b), 63 Stat. 880; Pub. L. 95–570, § 1(a), Nov. 2, 1978, 92 Stat. 2446.)

Amendments1978—Pub. L. 95–570 inserted provisions relating to appointment and determination of pay by the Vice President of employees and procurement by the Vice President of temporary or intermittent services of experts and consultants to enable the Vice President to provide assistance to the President; appropriation of sums for the official expenses of the Office of the Vice President, the official entertainment expenses of the Vice President, and subsistence expenses of Government personnel while traveling on official business in connection with the travel of the Vice President; accounting of sums by the Vice President; inspection, certification and report to Congress by the Comptroller General concerning expenditures; and allotment of assistance and services to the spouse of the Vice President or to a member of the Vice President’s family; struck out provisions which authorized the President to appoint and fix compensation of not to exceed six administrative assistants and directed that each assistant perform such duties as the President prescribed.
1949—Act Oct. 15, 1949, struck out salary provisions. See section 105 of this title.

Effective Date of 1978 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 95–570 applicable to any fiscal year beginning on or after Oct. 1, 1978, see section 6(a) of Pub. L. 95–570, set out as a note under section 102 of this title.

Effective Date of 1949 AmendmentAmendment by act Oct. 15, 1949, effective on first day of first pay period after Oct. 15, 1949, see section 9 of that act, set out as a note under section 273 of Title 2, The Congress.

References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay RatesReferences in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of Pub. L. 101–509, set out in a note under section 5376 of Title 5.

Former President’s Office StaffSee note under section 102 of this title.


Ex. Ord. No. 11456. Special Assistant to the President for Liaison With Former Presidents
Ex. Ord. No. 11456, Feb. 14, 1969, 34 F.R. 2301, provided:
By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. There shall be in the White House Office a Special Assistant to the President for Liaison with Former Presidents (referred to hereinafter as the Special Assistant).
Sec. 2. (a) On behalf of the President, the Special Assistant shall maintain channels of communication between the President and each former living President of the United States, to the end that (1) each such former President shall be kept abreast of such developments as the President may desire; and (2) the President may avail himself of the counsel and advice of any or all of such former Presidents with respect to major matters, particularly of a national security nature, currently confronting the President.
(b) The Special Assistant shall also—
(1) Keep each former President currently informed of the major aspects of such principal international and domestic problems as the President directs;
(2) Arrange to secure from such former Presidents, or any of them, and convey to the President, their views on such issues as the President may designate; and
(3) Arrange to secure and convey to the President such views as any of the former Presidents may wish to communicate to the President on any issue of current interest or concern.
Sec. 3. (a) The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Executive Secretary of the National Security Council shall each designate a member of his staff as a point of contact for the Special Assistant. The Special Assistant may call upon such designated staff members to supply information and render such other appropriate assistance as he may require in carrying out his duties under section 2 of this Order.
(b) Upon request of the Special Assistant, the head of any department or agency of the Federal Government shall designate a member of his staff as a point of contact to supply information and assistance for the Special Assistant in the performance of his duties in the same manner as provided in subsection (a) for staff members designated pursuant to that subsection.
Sec. 4. The Special Assistant shall be appointed by the President and shall serve at the pleasure of the President. He shall receive compensation at such rate as the President, consonant with law, may prescribe.
Sec. 5. (a) The Special Assistant shall have such staff and other assistance as may be necessary to carry out his duties under this Order.
(b) The Special Assistant shall be provided with such office space as may be necessary to carry out his duties under this Order, and shall also be provided with such office space, and maintenance thereof, as may be necessary for the use of former Presidents at the seat of Government when they are engaged in any effort of interest or concern to the President.
Sec. 6. (a) The compensation and expenses of the Special Assistant and members of his staff shall be paid from the appropriation under the heading “Special” in the Executive Office Appropriation Act, 1969, or any corresponding appropriation which may be made for subsequent fiscal years, or from such other appropriated funds as may be available under law.
(b) The General Services Administration shall provide, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative services and facilities for the Special Assistant as the White House Office may request.

Richard Nixon.



