§ 4201. General provisions(a) Congressional statement of findingsCongress finds that—(1) the Nation’s farmland is a unique natural resource and provides food and fiber necessary for the continued welfare of the people of the United States;

(2) each year, a large amount of the Nation’s farmland is irrevocably converted from actual or potential agricultural use to non­agricultural use;

(3) continued decrease in the Nation’s farmland base may threaten the ability of the United States to produce food and fiber in sufficient quantities to meet domestic needs and the demands of our export markets;

(4) the extensive use of farmland for non­agricultural purposes undermines the economic base of many rural areas;

(5) Federal actions, in many cases, result in the conversion of farmland to nonagricultural uses where alternative actions would be preferred;

(6) the Department of Agriculture is the agency primarily responsible for the implementation of Federal policy with respect to United States farmland, assuring the maintenance of the agricultural production capacity of the United States, and has the personnel and other resources needed to implement national farmland protection policy; and

(7) the Department of Agriculture and other Federal agencies should take steps to assure that the actions of the Federal Government do not cause United States farmland to be irreversibly converted to nonagricultural uses in cases in which other national interests do not override the importance of the protection of farmland nor otherwise outweigh the benefits of maintaining farmland resources.


(b) Statement of purposeThe purpose of this chapter is to minimize the extent to which Federal programs contribute to the unnecessary and irreversible conversion of farmland to nonagricultural uses, and to assure that Federal programs are administered in a manner that, to the extent practicable, will be compatible with State, unit of local government, and private programs and policies to protect farmland.


(c) DefinitionsAs used in this chapter—(1) the term “farmland” includes all land defined as follows:(A) prime farmland is land that has the best combination of physical and chemical characteristics for producing food, feed, fiber, forage, oilseed, and other agricultural crops with minimum inputs of fuel, fertilizer, pesticides, and labor, and without intolerable soil erosion, as determined by the Secretary. Prime farmland includes land that possesses the above characteristics but is being used currently to produce livestock and timber. It does not include land already in or committed to urban development or water storage;

(B) unique farmland is land other than prime farmland that is used for production of specific high-value food and fiber crops, as determined by the Secretary. It has the special combination of soil quality, location, growing season, and moisture supply needed to economically produce sustained high quality or high yields of specific crops when treated and managed according to acceptable farming methods. Examples of such crops include citrus, tree nuts, olives, cranberries, fruits, and vegetables; and

(C) farmland, other than prime or unique farmland, that is of statewide or local importance for the production of food, feed, fiber, forage, or oilseed crops, as determined by the appropriate State or unit of local government agency or agencies, and that the Secretary determines should be considered as farmland for the purposes of this chapter;


(2) the term “State” means any of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or any territory or possession of the United States;

(3) the term “unit of local government” means the government of a county, municipality, town, township, village, or other unit of general government below the State level, or a combination of units of local government acting through an areawide agency under State law or an agreement for the formulation of regional development policies and plans;

(4) the term “Federal program” means those activities or responsibilities of a department, agency, independent commission, or other unit of the Federal Government that involve (A) undertaking, financing, or assisting construction or improvement projects; or (B) acquiring, managing, or disposing of Federal lands and facilities. The term “Federal program” does not include construction or improvement projects that on the effective date of this chapter are beyond the planning stage and are in either the active design or construction state; and

(5) the term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture.


(Pub. L. 97–98, title XV, § 1540, Dec. 22, 1981, 95 Stat. 1341.)


References in TextThe effective date of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (c)(4), is six months after Dec. 22, 1981, see Effective Date note below.

Effective DatePub. L. 97–98, title XV, § 1549, Dec. 22, 1981, 95 Stat. 1344, provided that: “The provisions of this subtitle [subtitle I (§§ 1539–1549) of title XV of Pub. L. 97–98, enacting this chapter] shall become effective six months after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 22, 1981].”


Short TitlePub. L. 97–98, title XV, § 1539, Dec. 22, 1981, 95 Stat. 1341, provided that: “This subtitle [subtitle I (§§ 1539–1549) of title XV of Pub. L. 97–98, enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Farmland Protection Policy Act’.”



Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding section 1681 of Title 48, Territories and Insular Possessions.

Farmland ProtectionPub. L. 101–624, title XIV, ch. 2, §§ 1465–1470B, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3616–3619, as amended by Pub. L. 102–237, title II, §§ 201(b), (c), 203, Dec. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 1847, 1848, provided that:
“SEC. 1465. SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE, AND DEFINITION.“(a) Short Title.—This chapter may be cited as the ‘Farms for the Future Act of 1990’.

“(b) Purpose.—It is the purpose of this chapter to promote a national farmland protection effort to preserve our vital farmland resources for future generations.

“(c) Definitions.—As used in this chapter:“(1) Allowable interest rate.—The term ‘allowable interest rate’ refers to the interest rate that the State trust fund pays on each eligible loan (including the interest paid by the State trust fund, State, or State agency on bonds or other obligations described in paragraph (2)).

“(2) Eligible loan.—The term ‘eligible loan’ means each loan made by lending institutions to each State trust fund, or to the State acting in conjunction with the State trust fund, to further the purposes of this chapter, and the proceeds from any issuance of obligations, or other bonded indebtedness, of any eligible State, the State trust fund, or any agency of an eligible State, except that no eligible loan shall bear an interest rate in excess of 10 percent per year.

“(3) Eligible state.—The term ‘eligible State’ means—“(A) the State of Vermont; and

“(B) at the option of the Secretary and subject to appropriations, any State that—“(i) operates or administers a land preservation fund that invests funds in the protection or preservation of farmland for agricultural purposes; and

“(ii) works in coordination with the governing bodies of counties, towns, townships, villages, or other units of general government below the State level, or with private nonprofit or public organizations, to assist in the preservation of farmland for agricultural purposes.



“(4) Lending institution.—The term ‘lending institution’ means any Federal or State chartered bank, savings and loan association, cooperative lending agency, other legally organized lending agency, State government or agency, political subdivision of a State, or any nonprofit conservation organization.

“(5) Program.—The term ‘program’ means the farmland preservation program established under this chapter to be known as the ‘Agricultural Resource Conservation Demonstration Program’.

“(6) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Agriculture.

“(7) State.—The term ‘State’ means any State of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States.

“(8) State trust fund.—The term ‘State trust fund’ means any trust fund or an account established by an eligible State, or other public instrumentality of the eligible State, where such eligible State is approved to participate by the Secretary in the program under application procedures set forth in section 1466(j) or 1468.


