§ 1728a. President’s Emergency Food Assistance Fund(a) Establishment; authority of President to furnish assistance from FundThere is hereby established the President’s Emergency Food Assistance Fund (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Fund”). Whenever the President determines it to be in the national interest of the United States, he is authorized to furnish, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, and on such terms and conditions as he may determine, assistance from the Fund for the purpose of alleviating the human suffering of peoples outside the United States caused by acute food shortages. Such assistance may be provided through such governments or other entities, private or public, including intergovernmental and multilateral organizations, as the President deems appropriate.


(b) Types of assistance authorizedBecause the effects of severe food shortages will vary with the country or region, assistance to alleviate human suffering may include the provision of food assistance or such activities as the provision of seed, animal fodder, animal vaccines, and transportation (including inland transportation) and distribution services.


(c) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to the President $50,000,000 each for fiscal year 1985 and fiscal year 1986 to carry out the purposes of this subchapter, to remain available until expanded.11 So in original. Probably should be “expended.”


(d) Authority of PresidentThe President may make loans, advances, and grants to, make and perform agreements and contracts with, or enter into transactions with, any individual, corporation, or other body of persons, government or government agency, whether within or without the United States, and international and intergovernmental organizations in furtherance of the purposes and within the limitations of this subchapter.


(Pub. L. 98–473, title III, § 303, Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 2194.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the President’s Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1984, and not as part of the Food for Peace Act which comprises this chapter.


