§ 1404. Port of entry technology demonstration program(a) EstablishmentThe Secretary, acting through the Commissioner, shall carry out a technology demonstration program to test and evaluate new port of entry technologies, refine port of entry technologies and operational concepts, and train personnel under realistic conditions.


(b) Technology testedUnder the demonstration program, the Commissioner shall test technologies that enhance port of entry operations, including those related to inspections, communications, port tracking, identification of persons and cargo, sensory devices, personal detection, decision support, and the detection and identification of weapons of mass destruction.


(c) Demonstration sites(1) NumberThe Commissioner shall carry out the demonstration program at not less than three sites and not more than five sites.


(2) LocationOf the sites selected under subsection (c)— 11 So in original. Probably should be “paragraph (1)—”.(A) at least one shall be located on the northern border of the United States; and

(B) at least one shall be located on the southern border of the United States.


(3) Selection criteriaTo ensure that one of the facilities selected as a port of entry demonstration site for the demonstration program has the most up-to-date design, contains sufficient space to conduct the demonstration program, has a traffic volume low enough to easily incorporate new technologies without interrupting normal processing activity, and can efficiently carry out demonstration and port of entry operations, one port of entry selected as a demonstration site may—(A) have been established not more than 15 years before December 26, 2007;

(B) consist of not less than 65 acres, with the possibility of expansion onto not less than 25 adjacent acres; and

(C) have serviced an average of not more than 50,000 vehicles per month during the 12 months preceding December 26, 2007.



(d) Relationship with other agenciesThe Secretary, acting through the Commissioner, shall permit personnel from appropriate Federal agencies to utilize a demonstration site described in subsection (c) to test technologies that enhance port of entry operations, including those related to inspections, communications, port tracking, identification of persons and cargo, sensory devices, personal detection, decision support, and the detection and identification of weapons of mass destruction.


(e) Report(1) RequirementNot later than 1 year after December 26, 2007, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives, the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Committee on Homeland Security a report on the activities carried out at each demonstration site under the technology demonstration program established under this section.


(2) ContentThe report shall include an assessment by the Commissioner of the feasibility of incorporating any demonstrated technology for use throughout U.S. Customs and Border Protection.



(Pub. L. 110–161, div. E, title VI, § 605, Dec. 26, 2007, 121 Stat. 2096.)
