“Sec. 206. (a) For the purposes of this section, the term ‘interim covered service’ means covered service to which section 204(a) applies.

“(b)(1) Paragraphs (2) and (3) apply according to the provisions thereof only with respect to a covered employee who is employed by the Government on December 31, 1983.

“(2)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the interim covered service of such covered employee shall be considered—“(i) in determining entitlement to and computing the amount of an annuity (other than a disability or survivor annuity) commencing under a covered retirement system during the period beginning January 1, 1984, and ending on the earlier of the date a new Government retirement system takes effect or January 1, 1987, by reason of the retirement of such covered employee during such period only if such covered employee makes a deposit to the credit of such covered retirement system for such covered service in an amount computed as provided in subsection (f); and

“(ii) in computing a disability or survivor annuity which commences under a covered retirement system during such period and is based in any part on such interim covered service.


“(B) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an annuity to which subparagraph (A)(ii) applies shall be reduced by the portion of the amount of any benefits which is payable under title II of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.] and is attributable to the interim covered service considered in computing the amount of such annuity, as determined under subsection (g), unless, in the case of a survivor annuity, a covered employee has made a deposit with respect to such covered service for the purposes of subparagraph (A)(i) before the date on which payment of such annuity commences.


“(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if a new Government retirement system is not established or is inapplicable to such a covered employee who retires or dies subject to a covered retirement system after the date on which such new Government retirement system takes effect, the interim covered service of such covered employee shall be considered in determining entitlement to and computing the amount of an annuity under a covered retirement system based on the service of such covered employee only if such covered employee makes a deposit to the credit of such covered retirement system for such covered service in an amount computed as provided in subsection (f).


“(c)(1) Paragraphs (2) and (3) apply according to the provisions thereof only with respect to a covered employee who was not employed by the Government on December 31, 1983.

“(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any annuity which commences under a covered retirement system during the period described in subsection (b)(2)(A)(i) and is based, in any part, on interim covered service shall be reduced by the portion of the amount of any benefits which is payable under title II of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.] to the annuitant and is attributable to such service, as determined under subsection (g).

“(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if a new Government retirement system is not established, the interim covered service of such a covered employee who retires or dies after January 1, 1987, shall be considered in determining entitlement to and computing the amount of an annuity under a covered retirement system based on the service of such covered employee only if such covered employee makes a deposit to the credit of such covered retirement system for such covered service in an amount computed as provided in subsection (f).


“(d) If a covered employee with respect to whom subsection (b)(3) or (c)(3) applies dies without having made a deposit pursuant to such subsection, any individual who is entitled to an annuity under a covered retirement system based on the service of such covered employee or who would be entitled to such an annuity if such deposit had been made by the covered employee before death may make such deposit after the date of death of such covered employee. Service covered by a deposit made pursuant to the first sentence shall be considered in determining, in the case of each individual to whom the first sentence applies, the entitlement to and the amount of an annuity under a covered retirement system based on the service of such covered employee.

“(e) A reduction in annuity under subsection (b)(2)(B) or (c)(2) shall commence on the first day of the first month after the date on which payment of benefits under title II of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.] commence and shall be redetermined each time an increase in such benefits takes effect pursuant to section 215(i) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 415(i)]. In the case of an annuity of a participant or former participant in a covered retirement system, of a surviving spouse or child of such participant or former participant, or of any other person designated by such participant or former participant to receive an annuity, under a covered retirement system (other than a former spouse) the reduction in annuity under subsection (b)(2)(B) or (c)(2) shall be calculated before any reduction in such annuity provided under such system for the purpose of paying an annuity under such system to any former spouse of such participant or former participant based on the service of such participant or former participant.

“(f) For the purposes of subsection (b) or (c), the amount of a deposit to the credit of the applicable covered retirement system shall be equal to the excess of—“(1) the total amount which would have been deducted and withheld from the basic pay of the covered employee for the interim covered service under such covered retirement system but for the application of section 204(a), over

“(2) the amount which was deducted and withheld from such basic pay for such interim covered service pursuant to section 204(a) and was not refunded to such covered employee.


“(g) For the purpose of subsections (b)(2)(B) and (c)(2), the portion of the amount of the benefits which is payable under title II of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.] to an individual and is attributable to interim covered service shall be determined by—“(1) computing the amount of such benefits including credit for such service;

“(2) computing the amount of such benefits, if any, without including credit for such service; and

“(3) subtracting the amount computed under clause (2) from the amount computed under clause (1).


“(h) The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall furnish to the appropriate agency head (as defined in section 205(a)(2)) such information as such agency head considers necessary to carry out this section.

