“SEC. 2. ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION BUSINESS TRAVEL CARDS.“(a) In General.—During the 7-year period ending on September 30, 2018, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State, is authorized to issue Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards (referred to in this section as ‘ABT Cards’) to any eligible person, including business leaders and United States Government officials who are actively engaged in Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation business. An individual may not receive an ABT Card under this section unless the individual has been approved and is in good standing in an international trusted traveler program of the Department of Homeland Security.

“(b) Integration With Existing Travel Programs.—The Secretary of Homeland Security may integrate application procedures for, and issuance, suspension, and revocation of, ABT Cards with other appropriate international trusted traveler programs of the Department of Homeland Security.

“(c) Cooperation With Private Entities.—In carrying out this section, the Secretary of Homeland Security may consult with appropriate private sector entities.

“(d) Rulemaking.—The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State, may prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section, including regulations regarding conditions of or limitations on eligibility for an ABT Card.

“(e) Fee.—“(1) In general.—The Secretary of Homeland Security may—“(A) prescribe and collect a fee for the issuance of ABT Cards; and

“(B) adjust such fee to the extent the Secretary determines to be necessary to comply with paragraph (2).


“(2) Limitation.—The Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that the total amount of the fees collected under paragraph (1) during any fiscal year is sufficient to offset the direct and indirect costs associated with carrying out this section during such fiscal year, including the costs associated with establishing the program.

“(3) Account for collections.—There is established in the Treasury of the United States an ‘APEC Business Travel Card Account’ into which the fees collected under paragraph (1) shall be deposited as offsetting receipts.

“(4) Use of funds.—Amounts deposited into the APEC Business Travel Card Account—“(A) shall be credited to the appropriate account of the Department of Homeland Security for expenses incurred in carrying out this section; and

“(B) shall remain available until expended.



“(f) Termination of Program.—The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State, may terminate activities under this section if the Secretary of Homeland Security determines such action to be in the interest of the United States.”

