§ 6337. Accrual of leave(a) For the purpose of this section—(1) the term “paid leave status under subchapter I”, as used with respect to an employee, means the administrative status of such employee while such employee is using sick leave, or annual leave, accrued or accumulated under subchapter I; and

(2) the term “transferred leave status”, as used with respect to an employee, means the administrative status of such employee while such employee is using transferred leave under this subchapter.


(b)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, while an employee is in a transferred leave status, annual leave and sick leave shall accrue to the credit of such employee at the same rate as if such employee were then in a paid leave status under subchapter I, except that—(A) the maximum amount of annual leave which may be accrued by an employee while in transferred leave status in connection with any particular medical emergency may not exceed 5 days; and

(B) the maximum amount of sick leave which may be accrued by an employee while in transferred leave status in connection with any particular medical emergency may not exceed 5 days.


(2) Any annual or sick leave accrued by an employee under this section—(A) shall be credited to an annual leave or sick leave account, as appropriate, separate from any leave account of such employee under subchapter I; and

(B) shall not become available for use by such employee, and may not otherwise be taken into account under subchapter I, until, in accordance with subsection (c), it is transferred to the appropriate leave account of such employee under subchapter I.



(c)(1) Any annual or sick leave accrued by an employee under this section shall be transferred to the appropriate leave account of such employee under subchapter I, and shall be available for use—(A) as of the beginning of the first applicable pay period beginning after the date on which the employee’s medical emergency terminates as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 6335(a); or

(B) if the employee’s medical emergency has not yet terminated, once the employee has exhausted all transferred leave made available to such employee under this subchapter.


(2) In the event that the employee’s medical emergency terminates as described in section 6335(a)(3)—(A) any leave accrued but not yet transferred under this section shall not be credited to such employee; or

(B) if there remains, as of the date the emergency so terminates, any leave which became available to such employee under paragraph (1)(B), such leave shall cease to be available for any purpose.



(d) Nothing in this section shall be considered to prevent, with respect to a continuing medical emergency, further transfers of leave for use after leave accrued under this section has been exhausted by the employee.

(Added Pub. L. 100–566, § 2(a), Oct. 31, 1988, 102 Stat. 2837; amended Pub. L. 103–103, § 4, Oct. 8, 1993, 107 Stat. 1022.)

Amendments1993—Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 103–103 amended subsec. (c) generally and added subsec. (d). Prior to amendment, subsec. (c) read as follows:
“(1) Any annual or sick leave accrued by an employee under this section shall be transferred to the appropriate leave account of such employee under subchapter I, effective as of the beginning of the first applicable pay period beginning after the date on which the employee’s medical emergency terminates as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 6335(a).
“(2) If the employee’s medical emergency terminates as described in section 6335(a)(3), no leave shall be credited to such employee under this section.”

Effective Date of 1993 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 103–103 effective as of the 120th day after Oct. 8, 1993, or such earlier date as the Office of Personnel Management may by regulation prescribe, see section 6 of Pub. L. 103–103, set out as a note under section 6331 of this title.


