§ 934. Annual report and sequestration order(a) Annual reportNot later than 14 days (excluding weekends and holidays) after Congress adjourns to end a session, OMB shall make publicly available and cause to be printed in the Federal Register an annual PAYGO report. The report shall include an up-to-date document containing the PAYGO scorecards, a description of any current policy adjustments made under section 933(c) of this title, information about emergency legislation (if any) designated under section 933(g) of this title, information about any sequestration if required by subsection (b), and other data and explanations that enhance public understanding of this chapter and actions taken under it.


(b) Sequestration orderIf the annual report issued at the end of a session of Congress under subsection (a) shows a debit on either PAYGO scorecard for the budget year, OMB shall prepare and the President shall issue and include in that report a sequestration order that, upon issuance, shall reduce budgetary resources of direct spending programs by enough to offset that debit as prescribed in section 935 of this title. If there is a debit on both scorecards, the order shall fully offset the larger of the two debits. OMB shall transmit the order and the report to the House of Representatives and the Senate. If the President issues a sequestration order, the annual report shall contain, for each budget account to be sequestered, estimates of the baseline level of budgetary resources subject to sequestration, the amount of budgetary resources to be sequestered, and the outlay reductions that will occur in the budget year and the subsequent fiscal year because of that sequestration.


(Pub. L. 111–139, title I, § 5, Feb. 12, 2010, 124 Stat. 15.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this title”, meaning title I of Pub. L. 111–139, Feb. 12, 2010, 124 Stat. 8, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 931 of this title and Tables.


