“Sec. 4. (a)(1) Within 180 days after the effective date of this section, and subject to the requirements of section 302 and the terms of any written agreement referred to in section 302(a), the Commission shall establish a program which provides for the conducting of experiments by the Commission under titles I and II of this Act. Such experimental program shall cover a sufficient number of positions throughout the executive branch, and a sufficient range of worktime alternatives, as to provide an adequate basis on which to evaluate the effectiveness and desirability of permanently maintaining flexible or compressed work schedules within the executive branch.

“(2) Each agency may conduct one or more experiments under titles I and II of this Act. Such experiments shall be subject to such regulations as the Commission may prescribe under section 305 of this Act.


“(b) The Commission shall, not later than 90 days after the effective date of this section, establish a master plan which shall contain guidelines and criteria by which the Commission will study and evaluate experiments conducted under titles I and II of this Act. Such master plan shall provide for the study and evaluation of experiments within a sample of organizations of different size, geographic location, and functions and activities, sufficient to insure adequate evaluation of the impact of varied work schedules on—“(1) the efficiency of Government operations;

“(2) mass transit facilities and traffic;

“(3) levels of energy consumption;

“(4) service to the public;

“(5) increased opportunities for full-time and part-time employment; and

“(6) individuals and families generally.


“(c) The Commission shall provide educational material, and technical aids and assistance, for use by an agency before and during the period such agency is conducting experiments under this Act [enacting section 5550a of this title and this note].

“(d) If the head of an agency determines that the implementation of an experimental program referred to in subsection (a) would substantially disrupt the agency in carrying out its functions, such agency head shall request the Commission to exempt such agency from the requirements of any experiment conducted by the Commission under subsection (a). Such request shall be accompanied by a report detailing the reasons for such determination. The Commission shall exempt an agency from such requirements only if it finds that including the agency within the experiment would not be in the best interest of the public, the Government, or the employees. The filing of such a request with the Commission shall exclude the agency from the experiment until the Commission has made its determination or until 180 days after the date the request is filed, whichever first occurs.

