“SEC. 1305. COUNTRY OF ORIGIN LABELING PROGRAMS.“(a) Grown in the U.S. Program.—The Secretary of Agriculture (hereafter referred to in this section as the ‘Secretary’) shall implement a program defining the conditions under which non-perishable agricultural products may be designated as ‘grown in the U.S.’.

“(b) Pilot Program.—“(1) In general.—The Secretary shall implement a 2-year pilot program during which time perishable agricultural products (fresh fruits and vegetables) are labeled or marked as to their country of origin. This program shall be conducted nationwide. After the 2-year period, the Secretary shall conduct a study to determine the results of the program. The Secretary shall submit to the Congress the results of the study within 18 months from the date of completion of the program.

“(2) Details of the pilot program.—“(A) Designation of country of origin.—The program shall require that the country of origin of perishable agricultural products be indicated on any such products or on the package, display, holding unit, or bin by means of a label, stamp, mark, placard, or other clear and visible indication at the point of sale by any commission merchant, dealer, broker, or grocer. A sign near the products shall be an acceptable indication of the country of origin.

“(B) Application of program.—“(i) Imported and domestic products.—The program shall apply to imported and domestic perishable agricultural products (including fresh fruits and vegetables).

“(ii) Imported perishable agricultural products.—The labeling program shall apply to imported perishable agricultural products that enter the United States marked as to the country of origin and that are in compliance with section 304(a) of the Tariff Act of 1930 [19 U.S.C. 1304(a)].


“(C) Exemptions.—The Secretary may provide for exemptions for products that are exempted, under section 304(a)(3)(J) of the Tariff Act of 1930, from the country of origin marking requirements of that Act [19 U.S.C. 1202 et seq.].



“(c) Authorization of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.”

