§ 3319j. Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship Program(a) Fellowship program(1) In generalThe Secretary shall establish a fellowship program, to be known as the “Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship Program,” to provide fellowships for scientific training and study in the United States to individuals from eligible countries (as described in subsection (b)) who specialize in agricultural education, research, and extension.


(2) ProgramsThe Secretary shall carry out the fellowship program by implementing 3 programs designed to assist individual fellowship recipients, including—(A) a graduate studies program in agriculture to assist individuals who participate in graduate agricultural degree training at a United States institution;

(B) an individual career improvement program to assist agricultural scientists from developing countries in upgrading skills and understanding in agricultural science and technology; and

(C) a Borlaug agricultural policy executive leadership course to assist senior agricultural policy makers from eligible countries, with an initial focus on individuals from sub-Saharan Africa and the independent states of the former Soviet Union.



(b) Eligible countriesAn eligible country is a developing country, as determined by the Secretary using a gross national income per capita test selected by the Secretary.


(c) Purpose of fellowshipsA fellowship provided under this section shall—(1) promote food security and economic growth in eligible countries by—(A) educating a new generation of agricultural scientists;

(B) increasing scientific knowledge and collaborative research to improve agricultural productivity; and

(C) extending that knowledge to users and intermediaries in the marketplace; and


(2) shall 11 So in original. The word “shall” probably should not appear. support—(A) training and collaborative research opportunities through exchanges for entry level international agricultural research scientists, faculty, and policymakers from eligible countries;

(B) collaborative research to improve agricultural productivity;

(C) the transfer of new science and agricultural technologies to strengthen agricultural practice; and

(D) the reduction of barriers to technology adoption.



(d) Fellowship recipients(1) Eligible candidatesThe Secretary may provide fellowships under this section to individuals from eligible countries who specialize or have experience in agricultural education, research, extension, or related fields, including—(A) individuals from the public and private sectors; and

(B) private agricultural producers.


(2) Candidate identificationThe Secretary shall use the expertise of United States land-grant colleges and universities and similar universities, international organizations working in agricultural research and outreach, and national agricultural research organizations to help identify program candidates for fellowships under this section from the public and private sectors of eligible countries.



(e) Use of fellowshipsA fellowship provided under this section shall be used—(1) to promote collaborative programs among agricultural professionals of eligible countries, agricultural professionals of the United States, the international agricultural research system, and, as appropriate, United States entities conducting research; and

(2) to support fellowship recipients through programs described in subsection (a)(2).


(f) Program implementationThe Secretary shall provide for the management, coordination, evaluation, and monitoring of the Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship Program and for the individual programs described in subsection (a)(2), except that the Secretary may contract out to 1 or more collaborating universities the management of 1 or more of the fellowship programs.


(g) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section, to remain available until expended.


(Pub. L. 95–113, title XIV, § 1473G, as added Pub. L. 110–234, title VII, § 7139, May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1231, and Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a), title VII, § 7139, June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 1992.)

Codification
Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 enacted identical sections. Pub. L. 110–234 was repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

Effective DateEnactment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 8701 of this title.


