§ 3179. Research on strategies to promote the selection and consumption of healthy foods(a) In generalThe Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall establish a research, demonstration, and technical assistance program to promote healthy eating and reduce the prevalence of obesity, among all population groups but especially among children, by applying the principles and insights of behavioral economics research in schools, child care programs, and other settings.


(b) PrioritiesThe Secretary shall—(1) identify and assess the impacts of specific presentation, placement, and other strategies for structuring choices on selection and consumption of healthful foods in a variety of settings, consistent with the most recent version of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans published under section 5341 of this title;

(2) demonstrate and rigorously evaluate behavioral economics-related interventions that hold promise to improve diets and promote health, including through demonstration projects that may include evaluation of the use of portion size, labeling, convenience, and other strategies to encourage healthy choices; and

(3) encourage adoption of the most effective strategies through outreach and technical assistance.


(c) AuthorityIn carrying out the program under subsection (a), the Secretary may—(1) enter into competitively awarded contracts or cooperative agreements; or

(2) provide grants to States or public or private agencies or organizations, as determined by the Secretary.


(d) ApplicationTo be eligible to enter into a contract or cooperative agreement or receive a grant under this section, a State or public or private agency or organization shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.


(e) CoordinationThe solicitation and evaluation of contracts, cooperative agreements, and grant proposals considered under this section shall be coordinated with the Food and Nutrition Service as appropriate to ensure that funded projects are consistent with the operations of Federally supported nutrition assistance programs and related laws (including regulations).


(f) Annual reportsNot later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that includes a description of—(1) the policies, priorities, and operations of the program carried out by the Secretary under this section during the fiscal year;

(2) the results of any evaluations completed during the fiscal year; and

(3) the efforts undertaken to disseminate successful practices through outreach and technical assistance.


(g) Authorization of appropriations(1) In generalThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2015.


(2) Use of fundsThe Secretary may use up to 5 percent of the funds made available under paragraph (1) for Federal administrative expenses incurred in carrying out this section.



(Pub. L. 111–296, title II, § 244, Dec. 13, 2010, 124 Stat. 3239.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010, and not as part of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 which comprises this chapter.

Effective DateSection effective Oct. 1, 2010, except as otherwise specifically provided, see section 445 of Pub. L. 111–296, set out as an Effective Date of 2010 Amendment note under section 1751 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.


Definition of Secretary
Pub. L. 111–296, § 2, Dec. 13, 2010, 124 Stat. 3185, provided that: “In this Act [see Short Title of 2010 Amendment note set out under section 1751 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare], the term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Agriculture.”



