§ 1636f. Publication of information on retail purchase prices for representative meat products(a) In generalBeginning not later than 90 days after October 22, 1999, the Secretary shall compile and publish at least monthly (weekly, if practicable) information on retail prices for representative food products made from beef, pork, chicken, turkey, veal, or lamb.


(b) InformationThe report published by the Secretary under subsection (a) shall include—(1) information on retail prices for each representative food product described in subsection (a); and

(2) information on total sales quantity (in pounds and dollars) for each representative food product.


(c) Meat Price Spreads ReportDuring the period ending 2 years after the initial publication of the report required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall continue to publish the Meat Price Spreads Report in the same manner as the Report was published before October 22, 1999.


(d) Information collection(1) In generalTo ensure the accuracy of the reports required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall obtain the information for the reports from one or more sources including—(A) a consistently representative set of retail transactions; and

(B) both prices and sales quantities for the transactions.


(2) Source of informationThe Secretary may—(A) obtain the information from retailers or commercial information sources; and

(B) use valid statistical sampling procedures, if necessary.


(3) AdjustmentsIn providing information on retail prices under this section, the Secretary may make adjustments to take into account differences in—(A) the geographic location of consumption;

(B) the location of the principal source of supply;

(C) distribution costs; and

(D) such other factors as the Secretary determines reflect a verifiable comparative retail price for a representative food product.



(e) AdministrationThe Secretary—(1) shall collect information under this section only on a voluntary basis; and

(2) shall not impose a penalty on a person for failure to provide the information or otherwise compel a person to provide the information.


(Aug. 14, 1946, ch. 966, title II, § 257, as added Pub. L. 106–78, title IX, § 911(2), Oct. 22, 1999, 113 Stat. 1204.)
