§ 944. Container security standards and procedures(a) Establishment(1) In generalNot later than 90 days after October 13, 2006, the Secretary shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding to establish minimum standards and procedures for securing containers in transit to the United States.


(2) Interim ruleNot later than 180 days after October 13, 2006, the Secretary shall issue an interim final rule pursuant to the proceeding described in paragraph (1).


(3) Missed deadlineIf the Secretary is unable to meet the deadline established pursuant to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall submit a letter to the appropriate congressional committees explaining why the Secretary is unable to meet that deadline and describing what must be done before such minimum standards and procedures can be established.


(4) Deadline for enforcement(A) Enforcement of ruleNot later than 2 years after the date on which the standards and procedures are established pursuant to paragraph (1), all containers bound for ports of entry in the United States shall meet such standards and procedures.


(B) Interim requirementIf the interim final rule described in paragraph (2) is not issued by April 1, 2008, then—(i) effective not later than October 15, 2008, all containers in transit to the United States shall be required to meet the requirements of International Organization for Standardization Publicly Available Specification 17712 standard for sealing containers; and

(ii) the requirements of this subparagraph shall cease to be effective upon the effective date of the interim final rule issued pursuant to this subsection.




(b) Review and enhancementThe Secretary shall regularly review and enhance the standards and procedures established pursuant to subsection (a), as appropriate, based on tests of technologies as they become commercially available to detect container intrusion and the highest consequence threats, particularly weapons of mass destruction.


(c) International cargo security standardsThe Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Energy, and other Federal Government officials, as appropriate, and with the Commercial Operations Advisory Committee, the Homeland Security Advisory Committee, and the National Maritime Security Advisory Committee, is encouraged to promote and establish international standards for the security of containers moving through the international supply chain with foreign governments and international organizations, including the International Maritime Organization, the International Organization for Standardization, the International Labor Organization, and the World Customs Organization.


(d) International trade and other obligationsIn carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult with appropriate Federal departments and agencies and private sector stakeholders and ensure that actions under this section do not violate international trade obligations or other international obligations of the United States.


(Pub. L. 109–347, title II, § 204, Oct. 13, 2006, 120 Stat. 1905; Pub. L. 110–53, title XVII, § 1701(b), Aug. 3, 2007, 121 Stat. 491.)

Amendments2007—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 110–53, which directed amendment of par. (4) by substituting “(1) Deadline for enforcement” and subpar. (A) designation and heading for “(1) Deadline for enforcement”, was executed by inserting the subpar. (A) designation and heading before “Not later than” and making no change in the par. designation or heading, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Subsec. (a)(4)(B). Pub. L. 110–53, § 1701(b)(2), added subpar. (B).


