§ 288g. Advisory and other functions(a) Cooperation with persons, committees, subcommittees, and officesThe Counsel shall advise, consult, and cooperate with—(1) the United States Attorney for the District of Columbia with respect to any criminal proceeding for contempt of Congress certified by the President pro tempore of the Senate pursuant to section 194 of this title;

(2) the committee of the Senate with the responsibility to identify any court proceeding or action which is of vital interest to the Senate;

(3) the Comptroller General, the Government Accountability Office, the Office of Legislative Counsel of the Senate, and the Congressional Research Service, except that none of the responsibilities and authority assigned by this chapter to the Counsel shall be construed to affect or infringe upon any functions, powers, or duties of the aforementioned;

(4) any Member, officer, or employee of the Senate not represented under section 288c of this title with regard to obtaining private legal counsel for such Member, officer, or employee;

(5) the President pro tempore of the Senate, the Secretary of 11 So in original. Probably should be “of the”. Senate, the Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate, and the Parliamentarian of the Senate, regarding any subpena, order, or request for withdrawal of papers presented to the Senate which raises a question of the privileges of the Senate; and

(6) any committee or subcommittee of the Senate in promulgating and revising their rules and procedures for the use of congressional investigative powers and with respect to questions which may arise in the course of any investigation.


(b) Legal research filesThe Counsel shall compile and maintain legal research files of materials from court proceedings which have involved Congress, a House of Congress, an office or agency of Congress, or any committee, subcommittee, Member, officer, or employee of Congress. Public court papers and other research memoranda which do not contain information of a confidential or privileged nature shall be made available to the public consistent with any applicable procedures set forth in such rules of the Senate as may apply and the interests of the Senate.


(c) Miscellaneous dutiesThe Counsel shall perform such other duties consistent with the purposes and limitations of this chapter as the Senate may direct.


(Pub. L. 95–521, title VII, § 708, Oct. 26, 1978, 92 Stat. 1880; Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b), July 7, 2004, 118 Stat. 814.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a)(3) and (c), was in the original “this title”, meaning title VII of Pub. L. 95–521, which enacted this chapter, section 5504 of this title, and section 1364 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, and amended sections 3210, 3216, and 3219 of Title 39, Postal Service. For complete classification of title VII to the Code, see Tables.

Amendments2004—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 108–271 substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office”.


