§ 343. Chief Information Officer(a) In generalThe Chief Information Officer shall report to the Secretary, or to another official of the Department, as the Secretary may direct.


(b) Geospatial information functions(1) DefinitionsAs used in this subsection:(A) Geospatial informationThe term “geospatial information” means graphical or digital data depicting natural or manmade physical features, phenomena, or boundaries of the earth and any information related thereto, including surveys, maps, charts, remote sensing data, and images.


(B) Geospatial technologyThe term “geospatial technology” means any technology utilized by analysts, specialists, surveyors, photogrammetrists, hydrographers, geodesists, cartographers, architects, or engineers for the collection, storage, retrieval, or dissemination of geospatial information, including—(i) global satellite surveillance systems;

(ii) global position systems;

(iii) geographic information systems;

(iv) mapping equipment;

(v) geocoding technology; and

(vi) remote sensing devices.



(2) Office of Geospatial Management(A) EstablishmentThe Office of Geospatial Management is established within the Office of the Chief Information Officer.


(B) Geospatial Information Officer(i) AppointmentThe Office of Geospatial Management shall be administered by the Geospatial Information Officer, who shall be appointed by the Secretary and serve under the direction of the Chief Information Officer.


(ii) FunctionsThe Geospatial Information Officer shall assist the Chief Information Officer in carrying out all functions under this section and in coordinating the geospatial information needs of the Department.



(C) Coordination of geospatial informationThe Chief Information Officer shall establish and carry out a program to provide for the efficient use of geospatial information, which shall include—(i) providing such geospatial information as may be necessary to implement the critical infrastructure protection programs;

(ii) providing leadership and coordination in meeting the geospatial information requirements of those responsible for planning, prevention, mitigation, assessment and response to emergencies, critical infrastructure protection, and other functions of the Department; and

(iii) coordinating with users of geospatial information within the Department to assure interoperability and prevent unnecessary duplication.


(D) ResponsibilitiesIn carrying out this subsection, the responsibilities of the Chief Information Officer shall include—(i) coordinating the geospatial information needs and activities of the Department;

(ii) implementing standards, as adopted by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget under the processes established under section 216 of the E-Government Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. 3501 note), to facilitate the interoperability of geospatial information pertaining to homeland security among all users of such information within—(I) the Department;

(II) State and local government; and

(III) the private sector;


(iii) coordinating with the Federal Geographic Data Committee and carrying out the responsibilities of the Department pursuant to Office of Management and Budget Circular A–16 and Executive Order 12906; and

(iv) making recommendations to the Secretary and the Executive Director of the Office for State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness on awarding grants to—(I) fund the creation of geospatial data; and

(II) execute information sharing agreements regarding geospatial data with State, local, and tribal governments.




(3) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this subsection for each fiscal year.



(Pub. L. 107–296, title VII, § 703, Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2219; Pub. L. 108–458, title VIII, § 8201(b), Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3865.)


References in TextSection 216 of the E-Government Act of 2002, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(D)(ii), is section 216 of Pub. L. 107–347, which is set out in a note under section 3501 of Title 44, Public Printing and Documents.
Executive Order 12906, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(D)(iii), is set out as a note under section 1457 of Title 43, Public Lands.

Amendments2004—Pub. L. 108–458 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).

FindingsPub. L. 108–458, title VIII, § 8201(a), Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3865, provided that: 
“Congress makes the following findings:
“(1) Geospatial technologies and geospatial data improve government capabilities to detect, plan for, prepare for, and respond to disasters in order to save lives and protect property.

“(2) Geospatial data improves the ability of information technology applications and systems to enhance public security in a cost-effective manner.

“(3) Geospatial information preparedness in the United States, and specifically in the Department of Homeland Security, is insufficient because of—“(A) inadequate geospatial data compatibility;

“(B) insufficient geospatial data sharing; and

“(C) technology interoperability barriers.”






