§ 6935. Under Secretary of Agriculture for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs(a) Definition of agriculture committees and subcommitteesIn this section, the term “agriculture committees and subcommittees” means—(1) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives;

(2) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate; and

(3) the subcommittees on agriculture, rural development, food and drug administration, and related agencies 11 So in original. Probably should be “Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies”. of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.


(b) Proposal(1) In generalThe Secretary, in consultation with the agriculture committees and subcommittees, shall propose a reorganization of international trade functions for imports and exports of the Department of Agriculture.


(2) ConsiderationsIn producing the proposal under this section, the Secretary shall—(A) in recognition of the importance of agricultural exports to the farm economy and the economy as a whole, include a plan for the establishment of an Under Secretary of Agriculture for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs;

(B) take into consideration how the Under Secretary described in subparagraph (A) would serve as a multiagency coordinator of sanitary and phytosanitary issues and nontariff trade barriers in agriculture with respect to imports and exports of agricultural products; and

(C) take into consideration all implications of a reorganization described in paragraph (1) on domestic programs and operations of the Department of Agriculture.


(3) ReportNot later than 180 days after February 7, 2014, and before the reorganization described in paragraph (1) can take effect, the Secretary shall submit to the agriculture committees and subcommittees a report that—(A) includes the results of the proposal under this section; and

(B) provides a notice of the reorganization plan.


(4) ImplementationNot later than 1 year after the date of the submission of the report under paragraph (3), the Secretary shall implement a reorganization of international trade functions for imports and exports of the Department of Agriculture, including the establishment of an Under Secretary of Agriculture for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs.



(c) Confirmation requiredThe position of Under Secretary of Agriculture for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs established under subsection (b)(2)(A) shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.


(Pub. L. 113–79, title III, § 3208, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 781.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Agricultural Act of 2014, and not as part of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994, which in part comprises this chapter.

Definition of “Secretary”“Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture, see section 9001 of this title.


