§ 4110. Monuments to deceased Senators or House Members
Whenever any deceased Senator or Member of the House of Representatives shall be actually interred in the Congressional Cemetery, so-called, it shall be the duty of the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate, in the case of a Senator, and of the Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives, in the case of a Member of the House, to have a monument erected, of granite, with suitable inscriptions, and the cost of the same shall be a charge upon and paid out either from the contingent funds of the Senate or of the House of Representatives, to whichever the deceased may have belonged, and any existing omissions of monuments or inscriptions, as aforesaid, are directed and authorized to be supplied in like manner.
(May 23, 1876, ch. 103, 19 Stat. 54.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 51 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

National Trust Endowment for Care and Maintenance of Congressional CemeteryPub. L. 105–275, title II, § 209, Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2448, provided that:
“(a) Grant for Care and Maintenance of Congressional Cemetery.—In order to assist in the perpetual care and maintenance of the historic Congressional Cemetery, the Architect of the Capitol shall make a grant to the National Trust for Historic Preservation (hereafter in this section referred to as the ‘National Trust’) in accordance with an agreement entered into by the Architect of the Capitol with the National Trust and the Association for the Preservation of Historic Congressional Cemetery (hereafter in this section referred to as the ‘Association’) which contains the terms and conditions described in subsection (b) and such other provisions as the Architect may deem necessary or desirable for the implementation of this section or for the protection of the interests of the Federal Government.

“(b) Terms and Conditions of Agreement.—The terms and conditions described in this subsection are as follows:“(1) Upon receipt of the amounts provided under the grant made under subsection (a), the National Trust shall deposit the amounts in a permanently restricted account in its endowment and shall administer, invest, and manage such grant funds in the same manner as other National Trust endowment funds.

“(2) The National Trust shall make distributions to the Association from the amounts deposited in the endowment pursuant to paragraph (1), in accordance with its regularly established spending rate, for the care and maintenance of the Cemetery (other than the cost of personnel), except that the National Trust may only make such distributions incrementally and proportionately upon receipt by the National Trust of contributions from the Association which incrementally match the amounts provided under the grant made under subsection (a) and which are to be added to the permanently restricted account described in paragraph (1).

“(3) The Association shall use such distributions from the endowment and the match for the care and maintenance of Congressional Cemetery, except that the Association may not use such distributions for nonroutine restoration or capital projects.

“(4) The Association, or any successor thereto, shall maintain adequate records and accounts of all financial transactions and operations carried out with such distributions, and such records shall be available at all times for audit and investigation by the Architect of the Capitol and the Comptroller General.


“(c) No Title in United States.—Nothing in this section shall be construed to vest title to the Congressional Cemetery in the United States.”




Congressional Cemetery; Restoration and Preservation; Grants to the Association for the Preservation of Historic Congressional CemeteryPub. L. 97–245, Aug. 26, 1982, 96 Stat. 313, provided: 
“That the Congress finds and declares that—
“(1) sections of the Congressional Cemetery in the District of Columbia are of national historic significance, including those areas in which John Philip Sousa, Matthew Brady, J. Edgar Hoover, several former Members of the United States Senate and House of Representatives, and many other persons of historical importance and interest are buried; and

“(2) the physical condition of these areas and related portions of the cemetery has deteriorated to the extent that restoration is necessary to protect and preserve the historical values of these areas.

“Sec. 2. In order to assist in the restoration and preservation of the historic values of the Congressional Cemetery, the Architect of the Capitol is authorized and directed to make grants to the Association for the Preservation of Historic Congressional Cemetery, Washington, District of Columbia, to be used for a program of restoration and preservation (but not routine maintenance) of the cemetery to be carried out under terms and conditions to be prescribed by the Architect of the Capitol. The Association shall maintain adequate records and accounts of all financial transactions and operations carried out under such program, and such records shall be available at all times for audit and investigation by the Architect or the Comptroller General of the United States. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to vest title to the Congressional Cemetery in the United States.
