§ 7802. Definitions
As used in this chapter:(1) BoardThe terms “Avocado Board” and “Board” mean the Hass Avocado Board established under section 7804 of this title.


(2) Conflict of interestThe term “conflict of interest” means a situation in which a member or employee of the Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person that performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Board for anything of economic value.


(3) Consumer informationThe term “consumer information” means any action or program that provides information to consumers and other persons on the use, nutritional attributes, and other information that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchase, preparation, and use of Hass avocados.


(4) CustomsThe term “Customs” means the United States Customs Service.


(5) DepartmentThe term “Department” means the United States Department of Agriculture.


(6) Hass avocado(A) In generalThe term “Hass avocado” includes—(i) the fruit of any Hass variety avocado tree; and

(ii) any other type of avocado fruit that the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, determines is so similar to the Hass variety avocado as to be indistinguishable to consumers in fresh form.


(B) Form of fruitExcept as provided in subparagraph (C), the term includes avocado fruit described in subparagraph (A) whether in fresh, frozen, or any other processed form.


(C) ExceptionsIn any case in which a handler further processes avocados described in subparagraph (A), or products of such avocados, for sale to a retailer, the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may determine that such further processed products do not constitute a substantial value of the product and that, based on its determination, the product shall not be treated as a product of Hass avocados subject to assessment under the order. In addition, the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may exempt certain frozen avocado products from assessment under the order.



(7) Handler(A) First handlerThe term “first handler” means a person operating in the Hass avocados marketing system that sells domestic or imported Hass avocados for United States domestic consumption, and who is responsible for remitting assessments to the Board. The term includes an importer or producer who sells directly to consumers Hass avocados that the importer or producer has imported into the United States or produced, respectively.


(B) Exempt handlerThe term “exempt handler” means a person who would otherwise be considered a first handler, except that all avocados purchased by the person have already been subject to the assessment under section 7804(h) of this title.



(8) ImporterThe term “importer” means any person who imports Hass avocados into the United States.


(9) Industry informationThe term “industry information” means information and programs that are designed to increase efficiency in processing, enhance the development of new markets and marketing strategies, increase marketing efficiency, and activities to enhance the image of Hass avocados and the Hass avocado industry domestically.


(10) OrderThe term “order” means the Hass avocado promotion, research, and information order issued under this chapter.


(11) PersonThe term “person” means any individual, group of individuals, firm, partnership, corporation, joint stock company, association, cooperative, or other legal entity.


(12) ProducerThe term “producer” means any person who—(A) is engaged in the domestic production of Hass avocados for commercial use; and

(B) owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss, of such Hass avocados.


(13) PromotionThe term “promotion” means any action to advance the image, desirability, or marketability of Hass avocados, including paid advertising, sales promotion, and publicity, in order to improve the competitive position and stimulate sales of Hass avocados in the domestic marketplace.


(14) ResearchThe term “research” means any type of test, study, or analysis relating to market research, market development, and marketing efforts, or relating to the use, quality, or nutritional value of Hass avocados, other related food science research, or research designed to advance the image, desirability, and marketability of Hass avocados.


(15) SecretaryThe term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture.


(16) StateThe term “State” means each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia.


(17) United StatesThe term “United States” means the United States collectively.


(Pub. L. 106–387, § 1(a) [title XII, § 1203], Oct. 28, 2000, 114 Stat. 1549, 1549A–79.)


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


