“SEC. 1304. STUDY OF THE FRUIT AND VEGETABLE INDUSTRY.“(a) Study.—“(1) In general.—The Secretary of Agriculture shall conduct a study to determine the state of the domestic fruit and vegetable industry. In conducting such study, the Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with such agencies or departments, as determined necessary by the Secretary of Agriculture, including the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Labor, and the Department of Education.

“(2) Contents.—The study conducted under paragraph (1) shall include—“(A) a review of the availability of an adequate labor supply for maintaining and harvesting of fruits and vegetables;

“(B) a review of the availability of crop insurance or disaster assistance for fruit and vegetable producers;

“(C) a review of scientific and technological advances in the areas of genetics, biotechnology, integrated pest management, post harvest protection, and other scientific developments related to the production and marketing of fruits and vegetables;

“(D) an examination of the availability of safe and effective chemicals for use in the production of fruits and vegetables, and an evaluation of the value of national uniformity to both consumers and producers;

“(E) a review of the requirements and cost of labeling fruits and vegetables in the industry, and the benefits that would result from the labeling of such products; and

“(F) a review of Federal educational programs that teach the importance of fruits and vegetables to a proper diet.



“(b) Report.—Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this title [Nov. 28, 1990], the Secretary of Agriculture shall prepare and submit, to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, a report containing the results of the study described in subsection (a). Such report shall include—“(1) the recommendations of the Secretary concerning the manner in which producers of domestic fruit and vegetable commodities that are not receiving assistance under the programs that provide market enhancement assistance (such as the export enhancement program under subtitle B of title XI of the Food Security Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736p et seq.) to producers of domestic fruit and vegetable commodities, could participate in such programs; and

“(2) the recommendations to the Secretary concerning the establishment of additional programs of the type described in paragraph (1) to assist producers of domestic fruit and vegetable commodities in increasing their production and in expanding domestic and foreign markets for the products of such producers.


