§ 7105. Referenda(a) Initial referendum(1) In generalFollowing the issuance of an order under section 7103 of this title, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among producers, feeders, and importers who, during a representative period as determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production, feeding, or importation of sheep or sheep products for the purpose of ascertaining whether the order shall go into effect.


(2) Approval of orderThe order shall become effective only if the Secretary determines that the order has been approved by not less than a majority of the producers, feeders, and importers voting in the referendum or at least ⅔ of the production represented by persons voting in the referendum.



(b) Additional referenda(1) In generalAfter the initial referendum, on the request of a representative group comprising 10 percent or more of the producers, feeders, and importers who, during a representative period as determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production, feeding, importation, or processing of sheep or sheep products, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum of producers, feeders, and importers to determine whether the producers, feeders, and importers favor the termination or suspension of the order.


(2) Suspension or terminationIf the Secretary determines that suspension or termination of the order is favored by a majority of the producers, feeders, and importers voting in the referendum or at least ⅔ of the production represented by the persons voting in the referendum, the Secretary shall suspend or terminate—(A) collection of assessments under the order not later than 180 days after the determination; and

(B) the order in an orderly manner as soon as practicable after the determination.



(c) Procedures(1) Reimbursement(A) In generalExcept as provided in subparagraph (B), the Board shall reimburse the Secretary for any expenses incurred by the Secretary in connection with the conduct of any referendum under this section.


(B) Federal employee salariesThe Board shall not be required to reimburse the Secretary for the salaries of Federal employees under subparagraph (A) if the Secretary determines that the reimbursement would be overly burdensome and costly.



(2) DateEach referendum under this section shall be conducted on a date established by the Secretary, under a procedure by which producers, feeders, and importers intending to vote in the referendum shall certify that the producers, feeders, and importers were engaged in the production, feeding, or importation of sheep or sheep products during the representative period and, on the same day, shall be provided an opportunity to vote in the referendum.


(3) PlaceReferenda under this section shall be conducted at locations determined by the Secretary. Absentee mail ballots shall be furnished by the Secretary on request made in person, by mail, or by telephone.


(4) Allocation of productionThe Secretary shall determine a method of allocating, by a pro rata percentage of annual projected or actual assessments from importers, the volume of production represented by importers in referenda conducted pursuant to this section.



(Pub. L. 103–407, § 6, Oct. 22, 1994, 108 Stat. 4223.)
