§ 252. Establishment of Bureau of Border Security(a) Establishment of Bureau(1) In generalThere shall be in the Department of Homeland Security a bureau to be known as the “Bureau of Border Security”.


(2) Assistant SecretaryThe head of the Bureau of Border Security shall be the Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Border Security, who—(A) shall report directly to the Under Secretary for Border and Transportation Security; and

(B) shall have a minimum of 5 years professional experience in law enforcement, and a minimum of 5 years of management experience.


(3) FunctionsThe Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Border Security—(A) shall establish the policies for performing such functions as are—(i) transferred to the Under Secretary for Border and Transportation Security by section 251 of this title and delegated to the Assistant Secretary by the Under Secretary for Border and Transportation Security; or

(ii) otherwise vested in the Assistant Secretary by law;


(B) shall oversee the administration of such policies; and

(C) shall advise the Under Secretary for Border and Transportation Security with respect to any policy or operation of the Bureau of Border Security that may affect the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services established under part E of this subchapter, including potentially conflicting policies or operations.


(4) Program to collect information relating to foreign studentsThe Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Border Security shall be responsible for administering the program to collect information relating to nonimmigrant foreign students and other exchange program participants described in section 1372 of title 8, including the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System established under that section, and shall use such information to carry out the enforcement functions of the Bureau.


(5) Managerial rotation program(A) In generalNot later than 1 year after the date on which the transfer of functions specified under section 251 of this title takes effect, the Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Border Security shall design and implement a managerial rotation program under which employees of such bureau holding positions involving supervisory or managerial responsibility and classified, in accordance with chapter 51 of title 5, as a GS–14 or above, shall—(i) gain some experience in all the major functions performed by such bureau; and

(ii) work in at least one local office of such bureau.


(B) ReportNot later than 2 years after the date on which the transfer of functions specified under section 251 of this title takes effect, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress on the implementation of such program.




(b) Chief of Policy and Strategy(1) In generalThere shall be a position of Chief of Policy and Strategy for the Bureau of Border Security.


(2) FunctionsIn consultation with Bureau of Border Security personnel in local offices, the Chief of Policy and Strategy shall be responsible for—(A) making policy recommendations and performing policy research and analysis on immigration enforcement issues; and

(B) coordinating immigration policy issues with the Chief of Policy and Strategy for the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (established under part E of this subchapter), as appropriate.



(c) Legal advisorThere shall be a principal legal advisor to the Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Border Security. The legal advisor shall provide specialized legal advice to the Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Border Security and shall represent the bureau in all exclusion, deportation, and removal proceedings before the Executive Office for Immigration Review.


(Pub. L. 107–296, title IV, § 442, Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2193.)


References in TextPart E of this subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a)(3)(C) and (b)(2)(B), was in the original “subtitle E”, meaning subtitle E (§§ 451–462) of title IV of Pub. L. 107–296, Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2195, which enacted part E (§ 271 et seq.) of this subchapter, amended sections 1356 and 1573 of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality, and enacted provisions set out as a note under section 271 of this title. For complete classification of subtitle E to the Code, see Tables.


Change of Name
Bureau of Border Security, referred to in section catchline and text, changed to Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement by Reorganization Plan Modification for the Department of Homeland Security, eff. Mar. 1, 2003, H. Doc. No. 108–32, 108th Congress, 1st Session, set out as a note under section 542 of this title.


