§ 5518. Deductions for State retirement systems; National Guard employees
When—(1) a State statute provides for the payment of employee contributions to a State employee retirement system or to a State sponsored plan providing retirement, disability, or death benefits, by withholding sums from the pay of State employees and making returns of the sums withheld to State authorities or to the person or organization designated by State authorities to receive sums withheld for the program; and

(2) individuals employed by the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard, except employees of the National Guard Bureau, are eligible for membership in a State employee retirement system or other State sponsored plan;


the Secretary of Defense, under regulations prescribed by the President, shall enter into an agreement with the State within 120 days of a request for agreement from the proper State official. The agreement shall provide that the Department of Defense shall comply with the requirements of State statute as to the individuals named by paragraph (2) of this section who are eligible for membership in the State employee retirement system. The disbursing officials paying these individuals shall withhold and pay to the State employee retirement system or to the person or organization designated by State authorities to receive sums withheld for the program the employee contributions for these individuals. For the purpose of this section, “State” means a State or territory or possession of the United States including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(Pub. L. 89–554, Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 479.)











Historical and Revision Notes


DerivationU.S. CodeRevised Statutes andStatutes at Large


 5 U.S.C. 84d.June 15, 1956, ch. 390, 70 Stat. 283.Sept. 13, 1961, Pub. L. 87–224, § 1, 75 Stat. 496.


The words “individuals employed by” and the word “individuals” are substituted for “civilian employees of” and “employees”, respectively, in view of the definition of “employee” in section 2105 which is limited to those employed by the Government of the United States. The word “civilian” is omitted as unnecessary as military personnel are not “employed”. The words “disbursing officials” are substituted for “disbursing officers” as the definition of “officer” in section 2104 excludes a member of a uniformed service.
Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.


Ex. Ord. No. 10996. Withholding of Compensation for State and State-Sponsored Employee Retirement, Disability, or Death Benefits Programs
Ex. Ord. No. 10996, Feb. 16, 1962, 27 F.R. 1521, provided:
By virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of June 15, 1956, as amended, 75 Stat. 496 (5 U.S.C. 84d) [now this section], and by section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. As used in this order, the term:
(a) “Employees” means civilian employees of the Army National Guard or Air National Guard of a State who are employed pursuant to section 709 of title 32 of the United States Code, and paid from Federal, appropriated funds.
(b) “State” means one of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory of the United States.
Sec. 2. Each agreement between the Secretary of Defense and the Governor or other proper official of a State, pursuant to the provisions of the act of June 15, 1956, as amended, with respect to withholding of compensation of certain civilian employees of the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard for purposes of State or State-sponsored employee retirement, disability, or death benefits systems, shall be entered into by the Secretary of Defense within one hundred and twenty days of the receipt of a request therefor by the Secretary from the Governor or any other proper official of any State; Provided, that—
(a) the law of such State provides for the payment of employee contributions to such State or State-sponsored employee retirement, disability, or death benefits systems by withholding sums from the compensation of such State employees and making returns of such sums to officials of such State or organization designated by such officials to receive sums withheld for such programs;
(b) civilian employees of the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard, other than those employed by the National Guard Bureau, are eligible for membership in a State retirement, disability, or death benefits system; and
(c) each such agreement is consistent with the provisions of the said act of June 15, 1956, as amended, and of rules and regulations issued thereunder, and contains a clause that it shall be subject to any amendments of the said act, including amendments occurring after the effective date of such agreement.
Sec. 3. Each such agreement shall:
(a) Provide that the Secretary of the Army with respect to civilian employees of the Army National Guard, and the Secretary of the Air Force with respect to civilian employees of the Air National Guard, shall comply with the requirements of such State law in the case of employee subject to the said act of June 15, 1956, as amended, who are eligible for membership in such retirement, disability, or death benefits system for State employees;
(b) Specify when the withholding of sums from the compensation of such State employees shall commence; and
(c) Provide for procedures for the withholding, the filing of the returns, and the payment of the sums withheld from compensation to the officials of the State, or organization designated by such officials to receive sums withheld for such programs, which procedures shall conform, so far as practicable, to the usual fiscal practices of the Department of the Army and the Department of the Air Force, respectively.
Sec. 4. The Secretary of the Army with respect to civilian employees of the Army National Guard, and the Secretary of the Air Force with respect to civilian employees of the Air National Guard, shall designate, or provide for the designation of, the officers or employees whose duty it shall be to withhold sums from compensation, file required returns, and direct the payment of sums so withheld, in accordance with the terms of the agreements entered into between the Secretary of Defense and the States.
Sec. 5. Nothing in this order, or in rules or regulations issued thereunder, or in any agreement entered into pursuant thereto, shall be construed as giving consent to the application of any provision of law of any State which has the effect of imposing more burdensome requirements upon the United States than it imposes upon departments, agencies, or political subdivisions of the State concerned, with respect to employees thereof who are members of the State or State-sponsored retirement, disability, or death benefits system, or which has the effect of subjecting the United States or any of its officers or employees to any penalty or liability.
Sec. 6. I hereby delegate to the Secretary of Defense authority to prescribe such rules and regulations, not inconsistent herewith, as may be necessary to effectuate further the provisions of the said act of June 15, 1956, as amended, or of this order.
Sec. 7. Except to the extent that they may be inconsistent with this order, all determinations, authorizations, regulations, rulings, certificates, orders, directives, contracts, agreements, and other actions made, issued, or entered into with respect to any function affected by this order and not revoked, superseded, or otherwise made inapplicable before the date of this order, shall continue in full force and effect until amended, modified, or terminated by appropriate authority.
Sec. 8. This order supersedes Executive Order No. 10679 of September 20, 1956.

John F. Kennedy.



