§ 15b. Cotton futures contracts(a) Short titleThis section may be cited as the “United States Cotton Futures Act”.


(b) Repeal of tax on cotton futuresSubchapter D of chapter 39 of title 26 (relating to tax on cotton futures) is repealed.


(c) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section—(1) Cotton futures contractThe term “cotton futures contract” means any contract of sale of cotton for future delivery made at, on, or in any exchange, board of trade, or similar institution or place of business which has been designated a “contract market” by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act [7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.] and the term “contract of sale” as so used shall be held to include sales, agreements of sale, and agreements to sell, except that any cotton futures contract that, by its terms, is settled in cash is excluded from the coverage of this paragraph and section.


(2) Future deliveryThe term “future delivery” shall not include any cash sale of cotton for deferred shipment or delivery.


(3) PersonThe term “person” includes an individual, trust, estate, partnership, association, company, or corporation.


(4) SecretaryThe term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States.


(5) StandardsThe term “standards” means the official cotton standards of the United States established by the Secretary pursuant to the United States Cotton Standards Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 51 et seq.].



(d) Bona fide spot markets and commercial differences(1) DefinitionFor purposes of this section, the only markets which shall be considered bona fide spot markets shall be those which the Secretary shall, from time to time, after investigation, determine and designate to be such, and of which he shall give public notice.


(2) DeterminationIn determining, pursuant to the provisions of this section, what markets are bona fide spot markets, the Secretary is directed to consider only markets in which spot cotton is sold in such volume and under such conditions as customarily to reflect accurately the value of middling cotton and the differences between the prices or values of middling cotton and of other grades of cotton for which standards shall have been established by the Secretary; except that if there are not sufficient places, in the markets of which are made bona fide sales of spot cotton of grades for which standards are established by the Secretary, to enable him to designate at least five spot markets in accordance with subsection (f)(3), he shall, from data as to spot sales collected by him, make rules and regulations for determining the actual commercial differences in the value of spot cotton of the grades established by him as reflected by bona fide sales of spot cotton, of the same or different grades, in the market selected and designated by him, from time to time, for that purpose, and in that event differences in value of cotton of various grades involved in contracts made pursuant to subsection (f)(1) and (2) shall be determined in compliance with such rules and regulations. It shall be the duty of any person engaged in the business of dealing in cotton, when requested by the Secretary or any agent acting under his instructions, to answer correctly to the best of his knowledge, under oath or otherwise, all questions touching his knowledge of the number of bales, the classification, the price or bona fide price offered, and other terms of purchase or sale, of any cotton involved in any transaction participated in by him, or to produce all books, letters, papers, or documents in his possession or under his control relating to such matter. A person complying with the preceding sentence shall not be liable for any loss or damage arising or resulting from such compliance.


(3) Withholding informationAny person engaged in the business of dealing in cotton who shall, within a reasonable time prescribed by the Secretary or any agent acting under his instructions, willfully fail or refuse to answer questions or to produce books, letters, papers, or documents, as required under paragraph (2) of this subsection, or who shall willfully give any answer that is false or misleading, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500.



(e) Form and validity of cotton futures contractsEach cotton futures contract shall be a basis grade contract, or a tendered grade contract, or a specific grade contract as specified in subsections (f), (g), or (h) and shall be in writing plainly stating, or evidenced by written memorandum showing, the terms of such contract, including the quantity of the cotton involved and the names and addresses of the seller and buyer in such contract, and shall be signed by the party to be charged, or by his agent in his behalf. No cotton futures contract which does not conform to such requirements shall be enforceable by, or on behalf of, any party to such contract or his privies.


(f) Basis grade contracts(1) ConditionsEach basis grade cotton futures contract shall comply with each of the following conditions:(A) Conformity with regulationsConform to the regulations made pursuant to this section.


(B) Specification of grade, price, and dates of sale and settlementSpecify the basis grade for the cotton involved in the contract, which shall be one of the grades for which standards are established by the Secretary, except grades prohibited from being delivered on a contract made under this subsection by subparagraph (E), the price per pound at which the cotton of such basis grade is contracted to be bought or sold, the date when the purchase or sale was made, and the month or months in which the contract is to be fulfilled or settled; except that middling shall be deemed the basis grade incorporated into the contract if no other basis grade be specified either in the contract or in the memorandum evidencing the same.


(C) Provision for delivery of standard grades onlyProvide that the cotton dealt with therein or delivered thereunder shall be of or within the grades for which standards are established by the Secretary except grades prohibited from being delivered on a contract made under this subsection by subparagraph (E) and no other grade or grades.


(D) Provision for settlement on basis of actual commercial differencesProvide that in case cotton of grade other than the basis grade be tendered or delivered in settlement of such contract, the differences above or below the contract price which the receiver shall pay for such grades other than the basis grade shall be the actual commercial differences, determined as hereinafter provided.


(E) Prohibition of delivery of inferior cottonProvide that cotton that, because of the presence of extraneous matter of any character, or irregularities or defects, is reduced in value below that of low middling, or cotton that is below the grade of low middling, or, if tinged, cotton that is below the grade of strict middling, or, if yellow stained, cotton that is below the grade of good middling, the grades mentioned being of the official cotton standards of the United States, or cotton that is less than seven-eighths of an inch in length of staple, or cotton of perished staple, or of immature staple, or cotton that is “gin cut” or reginned, or cotton that is “repacked” or “false packed” or “mixed packed” or “water packed”, shall not be delivered on, under, or in settlement of such contract.


(F) Provisions for tender in full, notice of delivery date, and certificate of gradeProvide that all tenders of cotton under such contract shall be the full number of bales involved therein, except that such variations of the number of bales may be permitted as is necessary to bring the total weight of the cotton tendered within the provisions of the contract as to weight; that, on the fifth business day prior to delivery, the person making the tender shall give to the person receiving the same written notice of the date of delivery, and that, on or prior to the date so fixed for delivery, and in advance of final settlement of the contract, the person making the tender shall furnish to the person receiving the same a written notice or certificate stating the grade of each individual bale to be delivered and, by means of marks or numbers, identifying each bale with its grade.


(G) Provision for tender and settlement in accordance with Government classificationProvide that all tenders of cotton and settlements therefor under such contract shall be in accordance with the classification thereof made under the regulations of the Secretary by such officer or officers of the Government as shall be designated for the purpose, and the costs of such classification shall be fixed, assessed, collected, and paid as provided in such regulations and shall be credited to the account referred to in section 55 of this title. The Secretary may provide by regulation conditions under which cotton samples submitted or used in the performance of services authorized by this act shall become the property of the United States and may be sold and the proceeds credited to the foregoing account: Provided, That such cotton samples shall not be subject to the provisions of chapters 1 to 11 of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41. The Secretary is authorized to prescribe regulations for carrying out the purposes of this subparagraph and the certificates of the officers of the Government as to the classification of any cotton for the purposes of this subparagraph shall be accepted in the courts of the United States in all suits between the parties to such contract, or their privies, as prima facie evidence of the true classification of the cotton involved.



(2) Incorporation of conditions in contractsThe provisions of paragraphs (1)(C), (D), (E), (F), and (G) shall be deemed fully incorporated into any such contract if there be written or printed thereon, or on the memorandums evidencing the same, at or prior to the time the same is signed, the phrase “Subject to United States Cotton Futures Act, subsection (f).”


(3) Delivery allowancesFor the purpose of this subsection, the differences above or below the contract price which the receiver shall pay for cotton of grades above or below the basic 11 So in original. Probably should be “basis”. grade in the settlement of a contract of sale for the future delivery of cotton shall be determined by the actual commercial differences in value thereof upon the sixth business day prior to the day fixed, in accordance with paragraph (1)(F), for the delivery of cotton on the contract, established by the sale of spot cotton in the spot markets of not less than five places designated for the purpose from time to time by the Secretary, as such values were established by the sales of spot cotton, in such designated five or more markets. For purposes of this paragraph, such values in the such spot markets shall be based upon the standards for grades of cotton established by the Secretary. Whenever the value of one grade is to be determined from the sale or sales of spot cotton of another grade or grades, such value shall be fixed in accordance with rules and regulations which shall be prescribed for the purpose by the Secretary.



(g) Tendered grade contracts(1) ConditionsEach tendered grade cotton future contract shall comply with each of the following conditions:(A) Compliance with subsection (f)Comply with all the terms and conditions of subsection (f) not inconsistent with this subsection; and


(B) Provision for contingent specific performanceProvide that, in case cotton of grade or grades other than the basis grade specified in the contract shall be tendered in performance of the contract, the parties to such contract may agree, at the time of the tender, as to the price of the grade or grades so tendered, and that if they shall not then agree as to such price, then, and in that event, the buyer of said contract shall have the right to demand the specific fulfillment of such contract by the actual delivery of cotton of the basis grade named therein and at the price specified for such basis grade in said contract.



(2) Incorporation of conditions in contractContracts made in compliance with this subsection shall be known as “subsection (g) Contracts”. The provisions of this subsection shall be deemed fully incorporated into any such contract if there be written or printed thereon, or on the memorandum evidencing the same, at or prior to the time the same is signed, the phrase “Subject to United States Cotton Futures Act, subsection (g)”.


(3) Application of subsectionNothing in this subsection shall be so construed as to authorize any contract in which, or in the settlement of or in respect to which, any device or arrangement whatever is resorted to, or any agreement is made, for the determination or adjustment of the price of the grade or grades tendered other than the basis grade specified in the contract by any “fixed difference” system, or by arbitration, or by any other method not provided for by this section.



(h) Specific grade contracts(1) ConditionsEach specific grade cotton futures contract shall comply with each of the following conditions:(A) Conformity with rules and regulationsConform to the rules and regulations made pursuant to this section.


(B) Specification of grade, price, dates of sale and deliverySpecify the grade, type, sample, or description of the cotton involved in the contract, the price per pound at which such cotton is contracted to be bought or sold, the date of the purchase or sale, and the time when shipment or delivery of such cotton is to be made.


(C) Prohibition of delivery of other than specified gradeProvide that cotton of or within the grade or of the type, or according to the sample or description, specified in the contract shall be delivered thereunder, and that no cotton which does not conform to the type, sample, or description, or which is not of or within the grade specified in the contract shall be tendered or delivered thereunder.


(D) Provision for specific performanceProvide that the delivery of cotton under the contract shall not be effected by means of “setoff” or “ring” settlement, but only by the actual transfer of the specified cotton mentioned in the contract.



(2) Incorporation of conditions in contractThe provisions of paragraphs (1)(A), (C), and (D) shall be deemed fully incorporated into any such contract if there be written or printed thereon, or on the document or memorandum evidencing the same, at or prior to the time the same is entered into, the words “Subject to United States Cotton Futures Act, subsection (h)”.


(3) Application of subsectionThis subsection shall not be construed to apply to any contract of sale made in compliance with subsection (f) or (g).



(i) Liability of principal for acts of agentWhen construing and enforcing the provisions of this section, the act, omission, or failure of any official, agent, or other person acting for or employed by any association, partnership, or corporation within the scope of his employment or office shall, in every case, also be deemed the act, omission, or failure of such association, partnership, or corporation, as well as that of the person.


(j) RegulationsThe Secretary is authorized to make such regulations with the force and effect of law as he determines may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section and the powers vested in him by this section.


(k) ViolationsAny person who knowingly violates any regulation made in pursuance of this section, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, for each violation thereof, in the discretion of the court, and, in case of natural persons, may, in addition be punished by imprisonment for not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days, for each violation, in the discretion of the court except that this subsection shall not apply to violations subject to subsection (d)(3).


(l) Applicability to contracts prior to effective dateThe provisions of this section shall not apply to any cotton futures contract entered into prior to the effective date of this section or to any act or failure to act by any person prior to such effective date and all such prior contracts, acts or failure to act shall continue to be governed by the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 22 See References in Text note below. as in effect prior to the enactment of this section. All designations of bona fide spot markets and all rules and regulations issued by the Secretary pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 2 which were in effect on the effective date of this section, shall remain fully effective as designations and regulations under this section until superseded, amended, or terminated by the Secretary.


(m) AuthorizationThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.


(Pub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1952(a)–(m), Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1841–1846; Pub. L. 97–35, title I, § 156(c), Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 374; Pub. L. 102–237, title I, § 123, Dec. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 1844; Pub. L. 106–472, title III, § 311, Nov. 9, 2000, 114 Stat. 2076.)


References in TextThe Commodity Exchange Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 369, 42 Stat. 998, which is classified generally to chapter 1 (§ 1 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1 of this title and Tables.
The United States Cotton Standards Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(5), is act Mar. 4, 1923, ch. 288, 42 Stat. 1517, which is classified generally to chapter 2 (§ 51 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 51 of this title and Tables.
The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, referred to in subsec. (l), was redesignated the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 by Pub. L. 99–514, § 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095, and is classified to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Tax Reform Act of 1976, and not as part of the Commodity Exchange Act which comprises this chapter.
This section, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), was in the original a reference to this “Act”, meaning the United States Cotton Futures Act, which comprises this section.
In subsec. (f)(1)(G), “chapters 1 to 11 of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41” substituted for “the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.)” on authority of Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c), Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1303, which Act enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, and Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3854, which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.

Amendments2000—Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 106–472 inserted at end “A person complying with the preceding sentence shall not be liable for any loss or damage arising or resulting from such compliance.”
1991—Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 102–237 inserted before period at end “, except that any cotton futures contract that, by its terms, is settled in cash is excluded from the coverage of this paragraph and section”.
1981—Subsec. (f)(1)(G). Pub. L. 97–35 inserted provisions relating to crediting to account referred to in section 55 of this title and provisions respecting cotton samples submitted or used becoming the property of the United States.

Effective Date of 1981 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 97–35 effective Oct. 1, 1981, see section 156(e) of Pub. L. 97–35, set out as an Effective Date note under section 61a of this title.

Effective DatePub. L. 94–455, title XIX, § 1952(o), Oct. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1846, provided that: “The provisions of this section [enacting this section, amending section 6808 of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, and repealing sections 7233 and 7263, subchapter D of chapter 39, and subchapter E of chapter 76 of Title 26] shall take effect on the 90th day after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 4, 1976].”



