§ 9051. Definitions
In this part and part B:(1) Actual dairy production marginThe term “actual dairy production margin” means the difference between the all-milk price and the average feed cost, as calculated under section 9052 of this title.


(2) All-milk priceThe term “all-milk price” means the average price received, per hundredweight of milk, by dairy operations for all milk sold to plants and dealers in the United States, as determined by the Secretary.


(3) Average feed costThe term “average feed cost” means the average cost of feed used by a dairy operation to produce a hundredweight of milk, determined under section 9052 of this title using the sum of the following:(A) The product determined by multiplying 1.0728 by the price of corn per bushel.

(B) The product determined by multiplying 0.00735 by the price of soybean meal per ton.

(C) The product determined by multiplying 0.0137 by the price of alfalfa hay per ton.


(4) Consecutive 2-month periodThe term “consecutive 2-month period” refers to the 2-month period consisting of the months of January and February, March and April, May and June, July and August, September and October, or November and December, respectively.


(5) Dairy operation(A) In generalThe term “dairy operation” means, as determined by the Secretary, 1 or more dairy producers that produce and market milk as a single dairy operation in which each dairy producer—(i) shares in the risk of producing milk; and

(ii) makes contributions (including land, labor, management, equipment, or capital) to the dairy operation of the individual or entity, which are at least commensurate with the individual or entity’s share of the proceeds of the operation.


(B) Additional ownership structuresThe Secretary shall determine additional ownership structures to be covered by the definition of dairy operation.



(6) Margin protection programThe term “margin protection program” means the margin protection program required by section 9053 of this title.


(7) Margin protection program paymentThe term “margin protection program payment” means a payment made to a participating dairy operation under the margin protection program pursuant to section 9056 of this title.


(8) Participating dairy operationThe term “participating dairy operation” means a dairy operation that registers under section 9054 of this title to participate in the margin protection program.


(9) Production historyThe term “production history” means the production history determined for a participating dairy operation under subsection (a) or (b) of section 9055 of this title when the participating dairy operation first registers to participate in the margin protection program.


(10) SecretaryThe term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture.


(11) United StatesThe term “United States”, in a geographical sense, means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and any other territory or possession of the United States.


(Pub. L. 113–79, title I, § 1401, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 688.)
