§ 1291. Adjustments in freight rates(a) Complaints by Secretary of Agriculture; notice of hearingsThe Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to make complaint to the Surface Transportation Board with respect to rates, charges, tariffs, and practices relating to the transportation of farm products, and to prosecute the same before the Board. Before hearing or disposing of any complaint (filed by any person other than the Secretary) with respect to rates, charges, tariffs, and practices relating to the transportation of farm products, the Board shall cause the Secretary to be notified, and, upon application by the Secretary, shall permit the Secretary to appear and be heard.


(b) Secretary as party to proceedingsIf such rate, charge, tariff, or practice complained of is one affecting the public interest, upon application by the Secretary, the Board shall make the Secretary a party to the proceeding. In such case the Secretary shall have the rights of a party before the Board and the rights of a party to invoke and pursue original and appellate judicial proceedings involving the Board’s determination. The liability of the Secretary in any such case shall extend only to liability for court costs.


(c) Utilization of records, services, etc., of Department of AgricultureFor the purposes of this section, the Surface Transportation Board is authorized to avail itself of the cooperation, records, services, and facilities of the Department of Agriculture.


(d) Cooperation with complaining farm associationsThe Secretary is authorized to cooperate with and assist cooperative associations of farmers making complaint to the Surface Transportation Board with respect to rates, charges, tariffs, and practices relating to the transportation of farm products.


(Feb. 16, 1938, ch. 30, title II, § 201, 52 Stat. 36; Pub. L. 104–88, title III, § 311, Dec. 29, 1995, 109 Stat. 948.)

Amendments1995—Pub. L. 104–88 substituted “Surface Transportation Board” for “Interstate Commerce Commission” in subsecs. (a), (c), and (d), “Board” for “Commission” wherever appearing in subsecs. (a) and (b), and “Board’s” for “Commission’s” in subsec. (b).

Effective Date of 1995 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 104–88 effective Jan. 1, 1996, see section 2 of Pub. L. 104–88, set out as an Effective Date note under section 701 of Title 49, Transportation.


