§ 746. Target capabilities and preparedness priorities(a) Establishment of guidelines on target capabilitiesNot later than 180 days after October 4, 2006, the Administrator, in coordination with the heads of appropriate Federal agencies, the National Council on Disability, and the National Advisory Council, shall complete, revise, and update, as necessary, guidelines to define risk-based target capabilities for Federal, State, local, and tribal government preparedness that will enable the Nation to prevent, respond to, recover from, and mitigate against all hazards, including natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters.


(b) Distribution of guidelinesThe Administrator shall ensure that the guidelines are provided promptly to the appropriate committees of Congress and the States.


(c) ObjectivesThe Administrator shall ensure that the guidelines are specific, flexible, and measurable.


(d) Terrorism risk assessmentWith respect to analyzing and assessing the risk of acts of terrorism, the Administrator shall consider—(1) the variables of threat, vulnerability, and consequences related to population (including transient commuting and tourist populations), areas of high population density, critical infrastructure, coastline, and international borders; and

(2) the most current risk assessment available from the Chief Intelligence Officer of the Department of the threats of terrorism against the United States.


(e) Preparedness prioritiesIn establishing the guidelines under subsection (a), the Administrator shall establish preparedness priorities that appropriately balance the risk of all hazards, including natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters, with the resources required to prevent, respond to, recover from, and mitigate against the hazards.


(f) Mutual aid agreementsThe Administrator may provide support for the development of mutual aid agreements within States.


(Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 646, Oct. 4, 2006, 120 Stat. 1426.)
