§ 2061. Designation of play areas on Capitol grounds for children attending day care center(a) Authority of Capitol Police BoardNotwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to the provisions of paragraph (1) of subsection (b), the Capitol Police Board is authorized to designate certain portions of the Capitol grounds (other than a portion within the area bounded on the North by Constitution Avenue, on the South by Independence Avenue, on the East by First Street, and on the West by First Street) for use exclusively as play areas for the benefit of children attending a day care center which is established for the primary purpose of providing child care for the children of Members and employees of the Senate or the House of Representatives.


(b) Required approval; fences; termination of authority(1) In the case of any such designation referred to in subsection (a) involving a day care center established for the benefit of children of Members and employees of the Senate, the designation shall be with the approval of the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration, and in the case of such a center established for the benefit of children of Members and employees of the House of Representatives, the designation shall be with the approval of the House Committee on House Oversight, with the concurrence of the House Office Building Commission.

(2) The Architect of the Capitol shall enclose with a fence any area designated pursuant to subsection (a) as a play area.

(3) The authority to use an area designated pursuant to subsection (a) as a play area may be terminated at any time by the Committee which approved such designation.


(c) Playground equipment; required approvalNothing in this or any other Act shall be construed as prohibiting any day care center referred to in subsection (a) from placing playground equipment within an area designated pursuant to subsection (a) for use solely in connection with the operation of such center, subject to, in the case of a day care center established for the benefit of children of Members and employees of the Senate, the approval of the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration, and in the case of such a center established for the benefit of children of Members and employees of the House of Representatives, the approval of the House Committee on House Oversight, with the concurrence of the House Office Building Commission.


(d) Day care centerThe day care center referred to in S. Res. 269, Ninety-eighth Congress, first session, is a day care center for which space may be designated under subsection (a) for use as a play area.


(Pub. L. 98–392, § 3, Aug. 21, 1984, 98 Stat. 1362; Pub. L. 104–186, title II, § 221(14), Aug. 20, 1996, 110 Stat. 1750.)


References in TextS. Res. 269, Ninety-eighth Congress, first session, referred to in subsec. (d), is dated Nov. 14, 1983, and reads as follows: “Resolved, That payment is authorized from the contingent fund of the Senate in an amount not to exceed $20,000 for the start-up costs, including the procurement of the services of individual consultants or organizations, for a Senate day care center, which shall be ready for occupancy by January 1, 1984.
“Sec. 2. Payments under this resolution shall be paid from the appropriation account for ‘Miscellaneous Items’ in the contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers approved by the chairman of the Committee on Rules and Administration.
“Sec. 3. The Committee on Rules and Administration shall supervise any contract entered into on behalf of the Senate, under authority of this resolution. Such contract shall not be subject to the provisions of section 5 of title 41 of the United States Code [now 41 U.S.C. 6101] or any other provision of law requiring advertising.”

Codification
Section was classified to section 214b of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by Pub. L. 107–217, § 1, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1062.

Amendments1996—Subsecs. (b)(1), (c). Pub. L. 104–186 substituted “House Oversight” for “House Administration”.


Change of Name
Committee on House Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on House Administration of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999.


