§ 1632c. Acer access and development program(a) Grants authorizedThe Secretary of Agriculture may make competitive grants to States, tribal governments, and research institutions to support the efforts of such States, tribal governments, and research institutions to promote the domestic maple syrup industry through the following activities:(1) Promotion of research and education related to maple syrup production.

(2) Promotion of natural resource sustainability in the maple syrup industry.

(3) Market promotion for maple syrup and maple-sap products.

(4) Encouragement of owners and operators of privately held land containing species of trees in the genus Acer—(A) to initiate or expand maple-sugaring activities on the land; or

(B) to voluntarily make the land available, including by lease or other means, for access by the public for maple-sugaring activities.



(b) ApplicationIn submitting an application for a competitive grant under this section, a State, tribal government, or research institution shall include—(1) a description of the activities to be supported using the grant funds;

(2) a description of the benefits that the State, tribal government, or research institution intends to achieve as a result of engaging in such activities; and

(3) an estimate of the increase in maple-sugaring activities or maple syrup production that the State, tribal government, or research institution anticipates will occur as a result of engaging in such activities.


(c) Rule of constructionNothing in this section shall be construed so as to preempt a State or tribal government law, including a State or tribal government liability law.


(d) Definition of maple-sugaringIn this section, the term “maple-sugaring” means the collection of sap from any species of tree in the genus Acer for the purpose of boiling to produce food.


(e) RegulationsThe Secretary of Agriculture shall promulgate such regulations as are necessary to carry out this section.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018.


(Pub. L. 113–79, title XII, § 12306, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 988.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Agricultural Act of 2014, and not as part of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 which comprises this chapter.


