§ 1377. Collection of data on detained asylum seekers(a) In generalThe Attorney General shall regularly collect data on a nation-wide 11 So in original. Probably should be “nationwide”. basis with respect to asylum seekers in detention in the United States, including the following information:(1) The number of detainees.

(2) An identification of the countries of origin of the detainees.

(3) The percentage of each gender within the total number of detainees.

(4) The number of detainees listed by each year of age of the detainees.

(5) The location of each detainee by detention facility.

(6) With respect to each facility where detainees are held, whether the facility is also used to detain criminals and whether any of the detainees are held in the same cells as criminals.

(7) The number and frequency of the transfers of detainees between detention facilities.

(8) The average length of detention and the number of detainees by category of the length of detention.

(9) The rate of release from detention of detainees for each district of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

(10) A description of the disposition of cases.


(b) Annual reportsBeginning October 1, 1999, and not later than October 1 of each year thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of each House of Congress a report setting forth the data collected under subsection (a) of this section for the fiscal year ending September 30 of that year.


(c) Availability to publicCopies of the data collected under subsection (a) of this section shall be made available to members of the public upon request pursuant to such regulations as the Attorney General shall prescribe.


(Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(h) [title IX, § 903], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–480, 2681–541.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Haitian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act of 1998, and also as part of the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 1999, and the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999, and not as part of the Immigration and Nationality Act which comprises this chapter.


Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.


