§ 3133. Authorization of positions; authority for appointment(a) During each even-numbered calendar year, each agency shall—(1) examine its needs for Senior Executive Service positions for each of the 2 fiscal years beginning after such calendar year; and

(2) submit to the Office of Personnel Management a written request for a specific number of Senior Executive Service positions for each of such fiscal years.


(b) Each agency request submitted under subsection (a) of this section shall—(1) be based on the anticipated type and extent of program activities and budget requests of the agency for each of the 2 fiscal years involved, and such other factors as may be prescribed from time to time by the Office; and

(2) identify, by position title, positions which are proposed to be designated as or removed from designation as career reserved positions, and set forth justifications for such proposed actions.


(c) The Office of Personnel Management, in consultation with the Office of Management and Budget, shall review the request of each agency and shall authorize, for each of the 2 fiscal years covered by requests required under subsection (a) of this section, a specific number of Senior Executive Service positions for each agency.

(d)(1) The Office of Personnel Management may, on a written request of an agency or on its own initiative, make an adjustment in the number of positions authorized for any agency. Each agency request under this paragraph shall be submitted in such form, and shall be based on such factors, as the Office shall prescribe.

(2) The total number of positions in the Senior Executive Service may not at any time during any fiscal year exceed 105 percent of the total number of positions authorized under subsection (c) of this section for such fiscal year.


(e)(1) Not later than July 1, 1979, and from time to time thereafter as the Director of the Office of Personnel Management finds appropriate, the Director shall establish, by rule issued in accordance with section 1103(b) of this title, the number of positions out of the total number of positions in the Senior Executive Service, as authorized by this section or section 413 of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, which are to be career reserved positions. Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the number of positions required by this subsection to be career reserved positions shall not be less than the number of the positions then in the Senior Executive Service which, before the date of such Act, were authorized to be filled only through competitive civil service examination.

(2) The Director may, by rule, designate a number of career reserved positions which is less than the number required by paragraph (1) of this subsection only if the Director determines such lesser number necessary in order to designate as general positions one or more positions (other than positions described in section 3132(b)(3) of this title) which—(A) involve policymaking responsibilities which require the advocacy or management of programs of the President and support of controversial aspects of such programs;

(B) involve significant participation in the major political policies of the President; or

(C) require the senior executives in the positions to serve as personal assistants of, or advisers to, Presidential appointees.


The Director shall provide a full explanation for his determination in each case.


(Added Pub. L. 95–454, title IV, § 402(a), Oct. 13, 1978, 92 Stat. 1158.)


References in TextSection 413 of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, referred to in subsec. (e)(1), is set out as a note below.
The date of such Act, referred to in subsec. (e)(1), probably means Oct. 13, 1978, the date of the enactment of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978.

Conversion to Senior Executive ServicePub. L. 95–454, title IV, § 413, Oct. 13, 1978, 92 Stat. 1175, provided that:
“(a) For the purpose of this section, ‘agency’, ‘Senior Executive Service position’, ‘career appointee’, ‘career reserved position’, ‘limited term appointee’, ‘noncareer appointee’, and ‘general position’ have the meanings set forth in section 3132(a) of title 5, United States Code (as added by this title) and ‘Senior Executive Service’ has the meaning set forth in section 2101a of such title 5 (as added by this title).

“(b)(1) Under the guidance of the Office of Personnel Management, each agency shall—“(A) designate those positions which it considers should be Senior Executive Service positions and designate which of those positions it considers should be career reserved positions; and

“(B) submit to the Office a written request for—“(i) a specific number of Senior Executive Service positions; and

“(ii) authority to employ a specific number of noncareer appointees.



“(2) The Office of Personnel Management shall review the designations and requests of each agency under paragraph (1) of this subsection, and shall establish interim authorizations in accordance with sections 3133 and 3134 of title 5, United States Code (as added by this Act), and shall publish the titles of the authorized positions in the Federal Register.


“(c)(1) Each employee serving in a position at the time it is designated as a Senior Executive Service position under subsection (b) of this section shall elect to—“(A) decline conversion and be appointed to a position under such employee’s current type of appointment and pay system, retaining the grade, seniority, and other rights and benefits associated with such type of appointment and pay system; or

“(B) accept conversion and be appointed to a Senior Executive Service position in accordance with the provisions of subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of this section.


The appointment of an employee in an agency because of an election under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall not result in the separation or reduction in grade of any other employee in such agency.

“(2) Any employee in a position which has been designated a Senior Executive Service position under this section shall be notified in writing of such designation, the election required under paragraph (1) of this subsection, and the provisions of subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of this section. The employee shall be given 90 days from the date of such notification to make the election under paragraph (1) of this subsection.


“(d) Each employee who has elected to accept conversion to a Senior Executive Service position under subsection (c)(1)(B) of this section and who is serving under—“(1) a career or career-conditional appointment; or

“(2) a similar type of appointment in an excepted service position, as determined by the Office;


in a position which is designated as a Senior Executive Service position shall be appointed as a career appointee to such Senior Executive Service position without regard to section 3393(b)–(e) of title 5, United States Code (as added by this title).

“(e) Each employee who has elected conversion to a Senior Executive Service position under subsection (c)(1)(B) of this section and who is serving under an excepted appointment in a position which is not designated a career reserved position in the Senior Executive Service, but is—“(1) a position in Schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations;

“(2) a position filled by noncareer executive assignment under subpart F of part 305 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations; or

“(3) a position in the Executive Schedule under subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code [section 5311 et seq. of this title], other than a career Executive Schedule position;


shall be appointed as a noncareer appointee to a Senior Executive Service position.

“(f) Each employee who has elected conversion to a Senior Executive Service position under subsection (c)(1)(B) of this section, who is serving in a position described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (e) of this section, and whose position is designated as a career reserved position under subsection (b) of this section shall be appointed as a noncareer appointee to an appropriate general position in the Senior Executive Service or shall be separated.

“(g) Each employee who has elected conversion to a Senior Executive Service position under subsection (c)(1)(B) of this section, who is serving in a position described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (e) of this section, and whose position is designated as a Senior Executive Service position and who has reinstatement eligibility to a position in the competitive service, may, on request to the Office, be appointed as a career appointee to a Senior Executive Service position. The name of, and basis for reinstatement eligibility for, each employee appointed as a career appointee under this subsection shall be published in the Federal Register.

“(h) Each employee who has elected conversion to a Senior Executive Service position under subsection (c)(1)(B) of this section and who is serving under a limited executive assignment under subpart F of part 305 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, shall—“(1) be appointed as a limited term appointee to a Senior Executive Service position if the position then held by such employee will terminate within 3 years of the date of such appointment;

“(2) be appointed as a noncareer appointee to a Senior Executive Service position if the position then held by such employee is designated as a general position; or

“(3) be appointed as a noncareer appointee to a general position if the position then held by such employee is designated as a career reserved position.


“(i) The rate of basic pay for any employee appointed to a Senior Executive Service position under this section shall be greater than or equal to the rate of basic pay payable for the position held by such employee at the time of such appointment.

“(j) Any employee who is aggrieved by any action by any agency under this section is entitled to appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board under section 7701 of title 5, United States Code (as added by this title). An agency shall take any corrective action which the Board orders in its decision on an appeal under this subsection.

“(k) The Office shall prescribe regulations to carry out the purpose of this section.”



[Pub. L. 95–454, title IV, § 415(a)(2), Oct. 13, 1978, 92 Stat. 1179, provided that section 413 [set out above] is effective Oct. 13, 1978.]


