§ 182c. Revolving fund for FEDLINK program and Federal Research program(a) EstablishmentThere is hereby established in the Treasury a revolving fund for the Federal Library and Information Network program (hereafter in sections 182a to 182d of this title referred to as the “FEDLINK program”) of the Library of Congress (as described in subsection (f)(1)) and the Federal Research program of the Library of Congress (as described in subsection (f)(2)).


(b) Individual accounting requirementA separate account shall be maintained in the revolving fund under this section with respect to the programs described in subsection (a).


(c) Fees for services(1) In generalThe Librarian may charge a fee for services under the FEDLINK program and the Federal Research program, and shall deposit any such fees charged into the account of the revolving fund under this section for such program.


(2) Advances of fundsParticipants in the FEDLINK program and the Federal Research program shall pay for products and services of the program by advance of funds—(A) if the Librarian determines that amounts in the Revolving Fund 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. are otherwise insufficient to cover the costs of providing such products and services; or

(B) upon agreement between participants and the Librarian.



(d) Contents of fund(1) In generalEach account of the revolving fund under this section shall consist of the following amounts:(A) Amounts deposited by the Librarian under subsection (c).

(B) Any other amounts received by the Librarian which are attributable to the program covered by such account.

(C) Amounts deposited by the Librarian under paragraph (2).

(D) Such other amounts as may be appropriated under law.


(2) Deposit of funds during transitionNotwithstanding section 1535(d) of title 31, the Librarian shall transfer to the appropriate account of the revolving fund under this section the following:(A) Any obligated, unexpended balances existing as of the date of the transfer which are attributable to the FEDLINK program or the Federal Research program.

(B) An amount equal to the difference as of such date between—(i) the total value of the supplies, inventories, equipment, gift fund balances, and other assets attributable to such program; and

(ii) the total value of the liabilities attributable to such program.




(e) Use of amounts in fundAmounts in the accounts of the revolving fund under this section shall be available to the Librarian, in amounts specified in appropriations Acts and without fiscal year limitation, to carry out the program covered by each such account.


(f) Programs described(1) FEDLINKIn this section, the “FEDLINK program” is the program of the Library of Congress under which the Librarian provides the following services on behalf of participating Federal libraries, Federal information centers, other entities of the Federal Government, and the District of Columbia:(A) The procurement of commercial information services, publications in any format, and library support services.

(B) Related accounting services.

(C) Related education, information, and support services.


(2) Federal Research programIn this section, the “Federal Research program” is the program of the Library of Congress under which the Librarian provides research reports, translations, and analytical studies for entities of the Federal Government and the District of Columbia (other than any program of the Congressional Research Service).



(Pub. L. 106–481, title I, § 103, Nov. 9, 2000, 114 Stat. 2189.)


References in TextSections 182a to 182d of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 106–481, Nov. 9, 2000, 114 Stat. 2187, known as the Library of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act of 2000, which enacted this section and sections 182b to 182d of this title, amended section 154 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under this section and section 154 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 182a of this title and Tables.

Effective DateSection applicable with respect to fiscal year 2002 and each succeeding fiscal year, see section 105 of Pub. L. 106–481, set out as a note under section 182a of this title.


