§ 8306. Seizure, quarantine, and disposal(a) In generalThe Secretary may hold, seize, quarantine, treat, destroy, dispose of, or take other remedial action with respect to—(1) any animal or progeny of any animal, article, or means of conveyance that—(A) is moving or has been moved in interstate commerce or has been imported and entered; and

(B) the Secretary has reason to believe may carry, may have carried, or may have been affected with or exposed to any pest or disease of livestock at the time of movement or that is otherwise in violation of this chapter;


(2) any animal or progeny of any animal, article, or means of conveyance that is moving or is being handled, or has moved or has been handled, in interstate commerce in violation of this chapter;

(3) any animal or progeny of any animal, article, or means of conveyance that has been imported, and is moving or is being handled or has moved or has been handled, in violation of this chapter; or

(4) any animal or progeny of any animal, article, or means of conveyance that the Secretary finds is not being maintained, or has not been maintained, in accordance with any post-importation quarantine, post-importation condition, post-movement quarantine, or post-movement condition in accordance with this chapter.


(b) Extraordinary emergencies(1) In generalSubject to paragraph (2), if the Secretary determines that an extraordinary emergency exists because of the presence in the United States of a pest or disease of livestock and that the presence of the pest or disease threatens the livestock of the United States, the Secretary may—(A) hold, seize, treat, apply other remedial actions to, destroy (including preventative slaughter), or otherwise dispose of, any animal, article, facility, or means of conveyance if the Secretary determines the action is necessary to prevent the dissemination of the pest or disease; and

(B) prohibit or restrict the movement or use within a State, or any portion of a State of any animal or article, means of conveyance, or facility if the Secretary determines that the prohibition or restriction is necessary to prevent the dissemination of the pest or disease.


(2) State action(A) In generalThe Secretary may take action in a State under this subsection only on finding that measures being taken by the State are inadequate to control or eradicate the pest or disease, after review and consultation with—“(i) 11 So in original. Opening quotation marks probably should not appear. the Governor or an appropriate animal health official of the State; or

“(ii) 1 in the case of any animal, article, facility, or means of conveyance under the jurisdiction of an Indian tribe, the head of the Indian tribe.


(B) NoticeSubject to subparagraph (C), before any action is taken in a State under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall—(i) notify the Governor, an appropriate animal health official of the State, or head of the Indian tribe of the proposed action;

(ii) issue a public announcement of the proposed action; and

(iii) publish in the Federal Register—(I) the findings of the Secretary;

(II) a description of the proposed action; and

(III) a statement of the reasons for the proposed action.



(C) Notice after actionIf it is not practicable to publish in the Federal Register the information required under subparagraph (B)(iii) before taking action under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall publish the information as soon as practicable, but not later than 10 business days, after commencement of the action.




(c) Quarantine, disposal, or other remedial action(1) In generalThe Secretary, in writing, may order the owner of any animal, article, facility, or means of conveyance referred to in subsection (a) or (b) to maintain in quarantine, dispose of, or take other remedial action with respect to the animal, article, facility, or means of conveyance, in a manner determined by the Secretary.


(2) Failure to comply with ordersIf the owner fails to comply with the order of the Secretary, the Secretary may—(A) seize, quarantine, dispose of, or take other remedial action with respect to the animal, article, facility, or means of conveyance under subsection (a) or (b); and

(B) recover from the owner the costs of any care, handling, disposal, or other remedial action incurred by the Secretary in connection with the seizure, quarantine, disposal, or other remedial action.



(d) Compensation(1) In generalExcept as provided in paragraph (3), the Secretary shall compensate the owner of any animal, article, facility, or means of conveyance that the Secretary requires to be destroyed under this section.


(2) Amount(A) In generalSubject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), the compensation shall be based on the fair market value, as determined by the Secretary, of the destroyed animal, article, facility, or means of conveyance.


(B) LimitationCompensation paid any owner under this subsection shall not exceed the difference between—(i) the fair market value of the destroyed animal, article, facility, or means of conveyance; and

(ii) any compensation received by the owner from a State or other source for the destroyed animal, article, facility, or means of conveyance.


(C) ReviewabilityThe determination by the Secretary of the amount to be paid under this subsection shall be final and not subject to judicial review or review by any officer or employee of the Federal Government other than the Secretary or the designee of the Secretary.



(3) ExceptionsNo payment shall be made by the Secretary under this subsection for—(A) any animal, article, facility, or means of conveyance that has been moved or handled by the owner in violation of an agreement for the control and eradication of diseases or pests or in violation of this chapter;

(B) any progeny of any animal or article, which animal or article has been moved or handled by the owner of the animal or article in violation of this chapter;

(C) any animal, article, or means of conveyance that is refused entry under this chapter; or

(D) any animal, article, facility, or means of conveyance that becomes or has become affected with or exposed to any pest or disease of livestock because of a violation of an agreement for the control and eradication of diseases or pests or a violation of this chapter by the owner.



(Pub. L. 107–171, title X, § 10407, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 498; Pub. L. 110–234, title XI, § 11011(1), May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1360; Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a), title XI, § 11011(1), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 2121.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d)(3), was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle E (§§ 10401–10418) of title X of Pub. L. 107–171, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 494, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of subtitle E to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 8301 of this title and Tables.

Codification
Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 made identical amendments to this section. The amendments by Pub. L. 110–234 were repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.

Amendments2008—Subsec. (d)(2)(C). Pub. L. 110–246, § 11011(1), struck out “of longer than 60 days” after “or review”.

Effective Date of 2008 AmendmentAmendment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as an Effective Date note under section 8701 of this title.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to agricultural import and entry inspection activities under this chapter to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 231, 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


