§ 347. Quadrennial homeland security review(a) Requirement(1) Quadrennial reviews requiredIn fiscal year 2009, and every 4 years thereafter, the Secretary shall conduct a review of the homeland security of the Nation (in this section referred to as a “quadrennial homeland security review”).


(2) Scope of reviewsEach quadrennial homeland security review shall be a comprehensive examination of the homeland security strategy of the Nation, including recommendations regarding the long-term strategy and priorities of the Nation for homeland security and guidance on the programs, assets, capabilities, budget, policies, and authorities of the Department.


(3) ConsultationThe Secretary shall conduct each quadrennial homeland security review under this subsection in consultation with—(A) the heads of other Federal agencies, including the Attorney General, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Director of National Intelligence;

(B) key officials of the Department; and

(C) other relevant governmental and nongovernmental entities, including State, local, and tribal government officials, members of Congress, private sector representatives, academics, and other policy experts.


(4) Relationship with future years homeland security programThe Secretary shall ensure that each review conducted under this section is coordinated with the Future Years Homeland Security Program required under section 454 of this title.



(b) Contents of reviewIn each quadrennial homeland security review, the Secretary shall—(1) delineate and update, as appropriate, the national homeland security strategy, consistent with appropriate national and Department strategies, strategic plans, and Homeland Security Presidential Directives, including the National Strategy for Homeland Security, the National Response Plan, and the Department Security Strategic Plan;

(2) outline and prioritize the full range of the critical homeland security mission areas of the Nation;

(3) describe the interagency cooperation, preparedness of Federal response assets, infrastructure, budget plan, and other elements of the homeland security program and policies of the Nation associated with the national homeland security strategy, required to execute successfully the full range of missions called for in the national homeland security strategy described in paragraph (1) and the homeland security mission areas outlined under paragraph (2);

(4) identify the budget plan required to provide sufficient resources to successfully execute the full range of missions called for in the national homeland security strategy described in paragraph (1) and the homeland security mission areas outlined under paragraph (2);

(5) include an assessment of the organizational alignment of the Department with the national homeland security strategy referred to in paragraph (1) and the homeland security mission areas outlined under paragraph (2); and

(6) review and assess the effectiveness of the mechanisms of the Department for executing the process of turning the requirements developed in the quadrennial homeland security review into an acquisition strategy and expenditure plan within the Department.


(c) Reporting(1) In generalNot later than December 31 of the year in which a quadrennial homeland security review is conducted, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report regarding that quadrennial homeland security review.


(2) Contents of reportEach report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include—(A) the results of the quadrennial homeland security review;

(B) a description of the threats to the assumed or defined national homeland security interests of the Nation that were examined for the purposes of that review;

(C) the national homeland security strategy, including a prioritized list of the critical homeland security missions of the Nation;

(D) a description of the interagency cooperation, preparedness of Federal response assets, infrastructure, budget plan, and other elements of the homeland security program and policies of the Nation associated with the national homeland security strategy, required to execute successfully the full range of missions called for in the applicable national homeland security strategy referred to in subsection (b)(1) and the homeland security mission areas outlined under subsection (b)(2);

(E) an assessment of the organizational alignment of the Department with the applicable national homeland security strategy referred to in subsection (b)(1) and the homeland security mission areas outlined under subsection (b)(2), including the Department’s organizational structure, management systems, budget and accounting systems, human resources systems, procurement systems, and physical and technical infrastructure;

(F) a discussion of the status of cooperation among Federal agencies in the effort to promote national homeland security;

(G) a discussion of the status of cooperation between the Federal Government and State, local, and tribal governments in preventing terrorist attacks and preparing for emergency response to threats to national homeland security;

(H) an explanation of any underlying assumptions used in conducting the review; and

(I) any other matter the Secretary considers appropriate.


(3) Public availabilityThe Secretary shall, consistent with the protection of national security and other sensitive matters, make each report submitted under paragraph (1) publicly available on the Internet website of the Department.



(d) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.


(Pub. L. 107–296, title VII, § 707, as added Pub. L. 110–53, title XXIV, § 2401(a), Aug. 3, 2007, 121 Stat. 543.)

Preparation for First Quadrennial Homeland Security ReviewPub. L. 110–53, title XXIV, § 2401(b), Aug. 3, 2007, 121 Stat. 546, provided that:
“(1) In general.—During fiscal years 2007 and 2008, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall make preparations to conduct the first quadrennial homeland security review under section 707 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 [6 U.S.C. 347], as added by subsection (a), in fiscal year 2009, including—“(A) determining the tasks to be performed;

“(B) estimating the human, financial, and other resources required to perform each task;

“(C) establishing the schedule for the execution of all project tasks;

“(D) ensuring that these resources will be available as needed; and

“(E) all other preparations considered necessary by the Secretary.


“(2) Report.—Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 3, 2007], the Secretary shall submit to Congress and make publicly available on the Internet website of the Department of Homeland Security a detailed resource plan specifying the estimated budget and number of staff members that will be required for preparation of the first quadrennial homeland security review.”





