§ 606. Grants to directly eligible tribes(a) In generalNotwithstanding section 605(b) of this title, the Administrator may award grants to directly eligible tribes under section 605 of this title.


(b) Tribal applicationsA directly eligible tribe may apply for a grant under section 605 of this title by submitting an application to the Administrator that includes, as appropriate, the information required for an application by a State under section 605(b) of this title.


(c) Consistency with State plans(1) In generalTo ensure consistency with any applicable State homeland security plan, a directly eligible tribe applying for a grant under section 605 of this title shall provide a copy of its application to each State within which any part of the tribe is located for review before the tribe submits such application to the Department.


(2) Opportunity for commentIf the Governor of a State determines that the application of a directly eligible tribe is inconsistent with the State homeland security plan of that State, or otherwise does not support the application, not later than 30 days after the date of receipt of that application the Governor shall—(A) notify the Administrator, in writing, of that fact; and

(B) provide an explanation of the reason for not supporting the application.



(d) Final authorityThe Administrator shall have final authority to approve any application of a directly eligible tribe. The Administrator shall notify each State within the boundaries of which any part of a directly eligible tribe is located of the approval of an application by the tribe.


(e) PrioritizationThe Administrator shall allocate funds to directly eligible tribes in accordance with the factors applicable to allocating funds among States under section 608 of this title.


(f) Distribution of awards to directly eligible tribesIf the Administrator awards funds to a directly eligible tribe under this section, the Administrator shall distribute the grant funds directly to the tribe and not through any State.


(g) Minimum allocation(1) In generalIn allocating funds under this section, the Administrator shall ensure that, for each fiscal year, directly eligible tribes collectively receive, from the funds appropriated for the State Homeland Security Grant Program established under section 605 of this title, not less than an amount equal to 0.1 percent of the total funds appropriated for grants under sections 604 and 605 of this title.


(2) ExceptionThis subsection shall not apply in any fiscal year in which the Administrator—(A) receives fewer than 5 applications under this section; or

(B) does not approve at least 2 applications under this section.



(h) Tribal liaisonA directly eligible tribe applying for a grant under section 605 of this title shall designate an individual to serve as a tribal liaison with the Department and other Federal, State, local, and regional government officials concerning preventing, preparing for, protecting against, and responding to acts of terrorism.


(i) Eligibility for other fundsA directly eligible tribe that receives a grant under section 605 of this title may receive funds for other purposes under a grant from the State or States within the boundaries of which any part of such tribe is located and from any high-risk urban area of which it is a part, consistent with the homeland security plan of the State or high-risk urban area.


(j) State obligations(1) In generalStates shall be responsible for allocating grant funds received under section 605 of this title to tribal governments in order to help those tribal communities achieve target capabilities not achieved through grants to directly eligible tribes.


(2) Distribution of grant fundsWith respect to a grant to a State under section 605 of this title, an Indian tribe shall be eligible for funding directly from that State, and shall not be required to seek funding from any local government.


(3) Imposition of requirementsA State may not impose unreasonable or unduly burdensome requirements on an Indian tribe as a condition of providing the Indian tribe with grant funds or resources under section 605 of this title.



(k) Rule of constructionNothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authority of an Indian tribe that receives funds under this part.


(Pub. L. 107–296, title XX, § 2005, as added Pub. L. 110–53, title I, § 101, Aug. 3, 2007, 121 Stat. 279.)
