§ 3353. Agricultural biosecurity(a) Security at colleges and universities(1) GrantsThe Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) may award grants to covered entities to review security standards and practices at their facilities in order to protect against bioterrorist attacks.


(2) Covered entitiesCovered entities under this subsection are colleges or universities that—(A) are colleges or universities as defined in section 3103 of this title; and

(B) have programs in food and agricultural sciences, as defined in such section.


(3) LimitationEach individual covered entity may be awarded one grant under paragraph (1), the amount of which shall not exceed $50,000.


(4) Contract authorityColleges and universities receiving grants under paragraph (1) may use such grants to enter into contracts with independent private organizations with established and demonstrated security expertise to conduct the security reviews specified in such paragraph.



(b) Guidelines for agricultural biosecurity(1) In generalThe Secretary may award grants to associations of food producers or consortia of such associations for the development and implementation of educational programs to improve biosecurity on farms in order to ensure the security of farm facilities against potential bioterrorist attacks.


(2) LimitationEach individual association eligible under paragraph (1) may be awarded one grant under such paragraph, the amount of which shall not exceed $100,000. Each consortium eligible under paragraph (1) may be awarded one grant under such paragraph, the amount of which shall not exceed $100,000 per association participating in the consortium.


(3) Contract authorityAssociations of food producers receiving grants under paragraph (1) may use such grants to enter into contracts with independent private organizations with established and demonstrated expertise in biosecurity to assist in the development and implementation of educational programs to improve biosecurity specified in such paragraph.



(c) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each fiscal year.


(Pub. L. 107–188, title III, § 334, June 12, 2002, 116 Stat. 679.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, and not as part of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 which comprises this chapter.


