§ 6952. Multiagency task force(a) In generalThe Secretary shall establish, in the office of the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, a multiagency task force for the purpose of providing coordination and direction for commodity programs.


(b) CompositionThe Task Force shall be composed of at least 4 members, including—(1) a representative from the Food Distribution Division of the Food and Nutrition Service, who shall—(A) be appointed by the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services; and

(B) serve as Chairperson of the Task Force;


(2) at least 1 representative from the Agricultural Marketing Service, who shall be appointed by the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs;

(3) at least 1 representative from the Farm Services Agency, who shall be appointed by the Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services; and

(4) at least 1 representative from the Food Safety and Inspection Service, who shall be appointed by the Under Secretary for Food Safety.


(c) Duties(1) In generalThe Task Force shall be responsible for evaluation and monitoring of the commodity programs to ensure that the commodity programs meet the mission of the Department—(A) to support the United States farm sector; and

(B) to contribute to the health and well-being of individuals in the United States through the distribution of domestic agricultural products through commodity programs.


(2) Specific dutiesIn carrying out paragraph (1), the Task Force shall—(A) review and make recommendations regarding the specifications used for the procurement of food commodities;

(B) review and make recommendations regarding the efficient and effective distribution of food commodities; and

(C) review and make recommendations regarding the degree to which the quantity, quality, and specifications of procured food commodities align the needs of producers and the preferences of recipient agencies.



(d) ReportsNot later than 1 year after February 7, 2014, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that describes, for the period covered by the report—(1) the findings and recommendations of the Task Force; and

(2) policies implemented for the improvement of commodity procurement programs.


(Pub. L. 103–354, title II, § 242, as added Pub. L. 113–79, title IV, § 4205, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 823.)
