§ 106. Review of reports(a)(1) Each designated agency ethics official or Secretary concerned shall make provisions to ensure that each report filed with him under this title is reviewed within sixty days after the date of such filing, except that the Director of the Office of Government Ethics shall review only those reports required to be transmitted to him under this title within sixty days after the date of transmittal.

(2) Each congressional ethics committee and the Judicial Conference shall make provisions to ensure that each report filed under this title is reviewed within sixty days after the date of such filing.


(b)(1) If after reviewing any report under subsection (a), the Director of the Office of Government Ethics, the Secretary concerned, the designated agency ethics official, a person designated by the congressional ethics committee, or a person designated by the Judicial Conference, as the case may be, is of the opinion that on the basis of information contained in such report the individual submitting such report is in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, he shall state such opinion on the report, and shall sign such report.

(2) If the Director of the Office of Government Ethics, the Secretary concerned, the designated agency ethics official, a person designated by the congressional ethics committee, or a person designated by the Judicial Conference, after reviewing any report under subsection (a)—(A) believes additional information is required to be submitted, he shall notify the individual submitting such report what additional information is required and the time by which it must be submitted, or

(B) is of the opinion, on the basis of information submitted, that the individual is not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, he shall notify the individual, afford a reasonable opportunity for a written or oral response, and after consideration of such response, reach an opinion as to whether or not, on the basis of information submitted, the individual is in compliance with such laws and regulations.


(3) If the Director of the Office of Government Ethics, the Secretary concerned, the designated agency ethics official, a person designated by a congressional ethics committee, or a person designated by the Judicial Conference, reaches an opinion under paragraph (2)(B) that an individual is not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, the official or committee shall notify the individual of that opinion and, after an opportunity for personal consultation (if practicable), determine and notify the individual of which steps, if any, would in the opinion of such official or committee be appropriate for assuring compliance with such laws and regulations and the date by which such steps should be taken. Such steps may include, as appropriate—(A) divestiture,

(B) restitution,

(C) the establishment of a blind trust,

(D) request for an exemption under section 208(b) of title 18, United States Code, or

(E) voluntary request for transfer, reassignment, limitation of duties, or resignation.


The use of any such steps shall be in accordance with such rules or regulations as the supervising ethics office may prescribe.

(4) If steps for assuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations are not taken by the date set under paragraph (3) by an individual in a position in the executive branch (other than in the Foreign Service or the uniformed services), appointment to which requires the advice and consent of the Senate, the matter shall be referred to the President for appropriate action.

(5) If steps for assuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations are not taken by the date set under paragraph (3) by a member of the Foreign Service or the uniformed services, the Secretary concerned shall take appropriate action.

(6) If steps for assuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations are not taken by the date set under paragraph (3) by any other officer or employee, the matter shall be referred to the head of the appropriate agency, the congressional ethics committee, or the Judicial Conference, for appropriate action; except that in the case of the Postmaster General or Deputy Postmaster General, the Director of the Office of Government Ethics shall recommend to the Governors of the Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service the action to be taken.

(7) Each supervising ethics office may render advisory opinions interpreting this title within its respective jurisdiction. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the individual to whom a public advisory opinion is rendered in accordance with this paragraph, and any other individual covered by this title who is involved in a fact situation which is indistinguishable in all material aspects, and who acts in good faith in accordance with the provisions and findings of such advisory opinion shall not, as a result of such act, be subject to any penalty or sanction provided by this title.


(Pub. L. 95–521, title I, § 106, Oct. 26, 1978, 92 Stat. 1833; Pub. L. 101–194, title II, § 202, Nov. 30, 1989, 103 Stat. 1739; Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(1), (7), May 4, 1990, 104 Stat. 152, 155.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 706 of Title 2, The Congress.

Amendments1990—Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(1), struck out “of the United States” after “Judicial Conference”.
Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(7)(B), substituted “the Secretary concerned, the designated agency ethics official,” for “Secretary concerned, designated agency ethics official, or”.
Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(7)(A), substituted “a person designated by the Judicial Conference” for “the Chairman of the Judicial Conference”.
Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(1), struck out “of the United States” after “Judicial Conference”.
Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(7)(C), substituted “the Secretary concerned, the designated agency ethics official,” for “Secretary concerned, designated agency ethics official or”.
Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(7)(A), substituted “a person designated by the Judicial Conference” for “the Chairman of the Judicial Conference”.
Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(1), struck out “of the United States” after “Judicial Conference”.
Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(7)(D), substituted “the Secretary concerned, the designated agency ethics official, a person designated by a congressional ethics committee, or a person designated by the” for “Secretary concerned, designated agency ethics official, a congressional ethics committee, or the”.
Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(1), struck out “of the United States” after “Judicial Conference”.
Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(7)(E), inserted “in the executive branch” after “position” and substituted “Foreign Service” for “foreign service”.
Subsec. (b)(5). Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(7)(F), substituted “Foreign Service” for “foreign service”.
Subsec. (b)(6). Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(1), struck out “of the United States” after “Judicial Conference”.
Pub. L. 101–280, § 3(7)(G), substituted “employee,” for “employee”.
1989—Pub. L. 101–194 amended section generally, substituting provisions relating to review of reports for provisions relating to failure to file or filing false reports. See section 104(a) of this Appendix.

Effective Date of 1989 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 101–194 effective Jan. 1, 1991, see section 204 of Pub. L. 101–194, set out as a note under section 101 of this Appendix.


