“SEC. 301. DATA TO BE POSTED BY EMPLOYING FEDERAL AGENCIES.“(a) In General.—Each Federal agency shall post on its public Web site, in the time, form, and manner prescribed under section 303 (in conformance with the requirements of this section), summary statistical data relating to equal employment opportunity complaints filed with such agency by employees or former employees of, or applicants for employment with, such agency.

“(b) Content Requirements.—The data posted by a Federal agency under this section shall include, for the then current fiscal year, the following:“(1) The number of complaints filed with such agency in such fiscal year.

“(2) The number of individuals filing those complaints (including as the agent of a class).

“(3) The number of individuals who filed 2 or more of those complaints.

“(4) The number of complaints (described in paragraph (1)) in which each of the various bases of alleged discrimination is alleged.

“(5) The number of complaints (described in paragraph (1)) in which each of the various issues of alleged discrimination is alleged.

“(6) The average length of time, for each step of the process, it is taking such agency to process complaints (taking into account all complaints pending for any length of time in such fiscal year, whether first filed in such fiscal year or earlier). Average times under this paragraph shall be posted—“(A) for all such complaints,

“(B) for all such complaints in which a hearing before an administrative judge of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission is not requested, and

“(C) for all such complaints in which a hearing before an administrative judge of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission is requested.


“(7) The total number of final agency actions rendered in such fiscal year involving a finding of discrimination and, of that number—“(A) the number and percentage that were rendered without a hearing before an administrative judge of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and

“(B) the number and percentage that were rendered after a hearing before an administrative judge of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.


“(8) Of the total number of final agency actions rendered in such fiscal year involving a finding of discrimination—“(A) the number and percentage involving a finding of discrimination based on each of the respective bases of alleged discrimination, and

“(B) of the number specified under subparagraph (A) for each of the respective bases of alleged discrimination—“(i) the number and percentage that were rendered without a hearing before an administrative judge of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and

“(ii) the number and percentage that were rendered after a hearing before an administrative judge of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.



“(9) Of the total number of final agency actions rendered in such fiscal year involving a finding of discrimination—“(A) the number and percentage involving a finding of discrimination in connection with each of the respective issues of alleged discrimination, and

“(B) of the number specified under subparagraph (A) for each of the respective issues of alleged discrimination—“(i) the number and percentage that were rendered without a hearing before an administrative judge of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and

“(ii) the number and percentage that were rendered after a hearing before an administrative judge of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.



“(10)(A) Of the total number of complaints pending in such fiscal year (as described in the parenthetical matter in paragraph (6)), the number that were first filed before the start of the then current fiscal year.

“(B) With respect to those pending complaints that were first filed before the start of the then current fiscal year—“(i) the number of individuals who filed those complaints, and

“(ii) the number of those complaints which are at the various steps of the complaint process.


“(C) Of the total number of complaints pending in such fiscal year (as described in the parenthetical matter in paragraph (6)), the total number of complaints with respect to which the agency violated the requirements of section 1614.106(e)(2) of title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on July 1, 2000, and amended from time to time) by failing to conduct within 180 days of the filing of such complaints an impartial and appropriate investigation of such complaints.



“(c) Timing and Other Requirements.—“(1) Current year data.—Data posted under this section for the then current fiscal year shall include both—“(A) interim year-to-date data, updated quarterly, and

“(B) final year-end data.


“(2) Data for prior years.—The data posted by a Federal agency under this section for a fiscal year (both interim and final) shall include, for each item under subsection (b), such agency’s corresponding year-end data for each of the 5 immediately preceding fiscal years (or, if not available for all 5 fiscal years, for however many of those 5 fiscal years for which data are available).


