§ 576. Emergency Communications Preparedness Center(a) EstablishmentThere is established the Emergency Communications Preparedness Center (in this section referred to as the “Center”).


(b) OperationThe Secretary, the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney General of the United States, and the heads of other Federal departments and agencies or their designees shall jointly operate the Center in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding entitled, “Emergency Communications Preparedness Center (ECPC) Charter”.


(c) FunctionsThe Center shall—(1) serve as the focal point for interagency efforts and as a clearinghouse with respect to all relevant intergovernmental information to support and promote (including specifically by working to avoid duplication, hindrances, and counteractive efforts among the participating Federal departments and agencies)—(A) the ability of emergency response providers and relevant government officials to continue to communicate in the event of natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters; and

(B) interoperable emergency communications;


(2) prepare and submit to Congress, on an annual basis, a strategic assessment regarding the coordination efforts of Federal departments and agencies to advance—(A) the ability of emergency response providers and relevant government officials to continue to communicate in the event of natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters; and

(B) interoperable emergency communications;


(3) consider, in preparing the strategic assessment under paragraph (2), the goals stated in the National Emergency Communications Plan under section 572 of this title; and

(4) perform such other functions as are provided in the Emergency Communications Preparedness Center (ECPC) Charter described in subsection (b)(1).11 So in original. Subsection (b) of this section does not contain a paragraph (1).


(Pub. L. 107–296, title XVIII, § 1806, as added Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 671(b), Oct. 4, 2006, 120 Stat. 1440.)

Codification
Another section 1806 of Pub. L. 107–296 was renumbered section 1906 and is classified to section 596 of this title.


