“Sec. 201. (a) The Secretary shall, in accordance with the provisions of this title, make grants to State educational agencies for fiscal year 1981, and for each subsequent fiscal year, for the purposes of assisting local educational agencies of that State in providing basic education for eligible participants enrolled in elementary or secondary public schools. Payments made under this title to any State shall be used in accordance with applications approved under section 202 for public educational services for eligible participants enrolled in the elementary and secondary public schools under the jurisdiction of the local educational agencies of that State.

“(b)(1) As soon as possible after the date of the enactment of the Consolidated Refugee Education Assistance Act [Aug. 13, 1981], the Secretary shall establish a formula (reflecting the availability of the full amount authorized for this title under section 203(b)) by which to determine the amount of the grant which each State educational agency is entitled to receive under this title for any fiscal year. The formula established by the Secretary shall take into account the number of years that an eligible participant assisted under this title has resided within the United States and the relative costs, by grade level, of providing education for elementary and secondary school children. On the basis of the formula the Secretary shall allocate among the State educational agencies, for each fiscal year, the amounts available to carry out this title, subject to such reductions or adjustments as may be required under paragraph (2) or subsection (c). Funds shall be allocated among State educational agencies pursuant to the formula without regard to variations in educational costs among different geographical areas.

“(2) The amount of the grant to which a State educational agency is otherwise entitled for any fiscal year, as determined under paragraph (1), shall be reduced by the amounts made available for such fiscal year under any other Federal law for expenditure within the State for the same purposes as those for which funds are made available under this title, except that the reduction shall be made only to the extent that (A) such amounts are made available for such purposes specifically because of the refugee, parolee, or asylee status of the individuals to be served by such funds, and (B) such amounts are made available to provide assistance to individuals eligible for services under this title. The amount of the reduction required under this paragraph shall be determined by the Secretary in a manner consistent with subsection (c).

“(3) For the purpose of this subsection, the term ‘State’ does not include Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. The entitlements of such jurisdictions shall be determined in the manner specified in section 103, but for purposes of this title and section 105 any payments made under section 103 for the purposes set forth in section 201(a) shall be considered to be payments under this title.


“(c) Determinations by the Secretary under this title for any period with respect to the number of eligible participants and the amount of the reduction under subsection (b)(2) shall be made, whenever actual satisfactory data are not available, on the basis of estimates. No such determination shall operate because of an underestimate or overestimate to deprive any State educational agency of its entitlement to any payment (or the amount thereof) under this title to which such agency would be entitled had such determination been made on the basis of accurate data.

