“SEC. 5. MEMBERSHIP.“(a) Number and Appointment.—The Council shall be composed of 15 members as follows:“(1) 2 Members of the Senate, 1 of whom shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate and the other of whom shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate.

“(2) 2 Members of the House of Representatives, 1 of whom shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the other of whom shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.

“(3) The Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts (or his delegate).

“(4) 10 individuals appointed by the President—“(A) 4 of whom shall be chosen from among officers serving in the executive branch;

“(B) 1 of whom shall be chosen from among career employees in the civil service;

“(C) 1 of whom shall be a Federal employee who is a member of a labor organization (as defined by section 7103(a)(4) of title 5, United States Code); and

“(D) 4 of whom shall be chosen from among members of the public who do not hold any Government office or position.



“(b) Continuation of Membership.—If any member of the Council whose appointment is based on that individual’s holding a Government office or position leaves such office or position, or if any member of the Council under subsection (a)(4)(D) is appointed or elected to a Government office or position, that individual may continue to serve as such a member for not longer than the 90-day period beginning on the date of leaving that office or position, or entering into that office or position, as the case may be.

“(c) Terms.—Members of the Council shall be appointed for the life of the Council.

“(d) Vacancies.—A vacancy in the Council shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.

“(e) Compensation.—(1) Members of the Council shall not be entitled to pay (or, in the case of members holding any Government office or position, pay in addition to any to which they are otherwise entitled for service in such office or position) by virtue of membership on the Council.

“(2) While serving away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of duties for the Council, members shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as authorized by section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, for persons employed intermittently in Government service.


“(f) Quorum.—Eight members of the Council shall constitute a quorum.

“(g) Chairman.—The Chairman of the Council shall be designated by the President from among the members appointed under subsection (a)(4)(D).

“(h) Meetings.—The Council shall meet at the call of the Chairman or a majority of its members, and shall meet on at least a quarterly basis.

