§ 183. Written history of the House of Representatives(a) In generalSubject to available funding and in accordance with the requirements of this section and section 183a of this title, the Librarian of Congress shall prepare, print, distribute, and arrange for the funding of, a new and complete written history of the House of Representatives, in consultation with the Committee on House Administration. In preparing this written history, the Librarian of Congress shall consult, commission, or engage the services or participation of, eminent historians, Members, and former Members of the House of Representatives.


(b) GuidelinesIn carrying out subsection (a), the Librarian of Congress shall take into account the following:(1) The history should be an illustrated, narrative history of the House of Representatives, organized chronologically.

(2) The history’s intended audience is the general reader, as well as Members of Congress and their staffs.

(3) The history should include a discussion of the First and Second Continental Congresses and the Constitutional Convention, especially with regard to their roles in creating the House of Representatives.


(c) Printing(1) In generalThe Librarian of Congress shall arrange for the printing of the history.


(2) Printing arrangementsThe printing may be performed—(A) by the Public Printer pursuant to the provisions of chapter 5 of title 44;

(B) under a cooperative arrangement among the Librarian of Congress, a private funding source obtained pursuant to subsection (e), and a publisher in the private sector; or

(C) under subparagraphs (A) and (B).


(3) Internet disseminationAny arrangement under paragraph (2) shall include terms for dissemination of excerpts of the history over the Internet via facilities maintained by the United States Government.


(4) Member copiesTo the extent that the history is printed by the Public Printer, copies of the history provided to the Congress under subsection (d) shall be charged to the Government Printing Office’s congressional allotment for printing and binding.



(d) DistributionThe Librarian of Congress shall make the history available for sale to the public, and shall make available, free of charge, 5 copies to each Member of the House of Representatives and 250 copies to the Senate.


(e) Private fundingThe Librarian of Congress shall solicit and accept funding for the preparation, publication, marketing, and public distribution of the history from private individuals, organizations, or entities.


(Pub. L. 106–99, § 2, Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1330; Pub. L. 108–7, div. H, title I, § 1305, Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 379.)


References in TextThis section and section 183a of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 106–99, which enacted this section and section 183a of this title and provisions set out as a note under this section. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under this section and Tables.

Amendments2003—Subsec. (c)(3). Pub. L. 108–7 inserted “excerpts of” after “dissemination of”.

Short TitlePub. L. 106–99, § 1, Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1330, provided that: “This Act [enacting this section and section 183a of this title] may be cited as the ‘History of the House Awareness and Preservation Act’.”



