“SEC. 1248. REPORTS.“(a) Secretary of Homeland Security.—Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008], the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report containing plans to expedite the processing of Iraqi refugees for resettlement, including information relating to—“(1) expediting the processing of Iraqi refugees for resettlement, including through temporary expansion of the Refugee Corps of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services;

“(2) increasing the number of personnel of the Department of Homeland Security devoted to refugee processing in Iraq, Jordan, Egypt, Syria, Turkey, and Lebanon;

“(3) enhancing existing systems for conducting background and security checks of persons applying for special immigrant status and of persons considered Priority 2 refugees of special humanitarian concern under the refugee resettlement priority system, which enhancements shall support immigration security and provide for the orderly processing of such applications without delay; and

“(4) the projections of the Secretary, per country and per month, for the number of refugee interviews that will be conducted in fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2009.


“(b) President.—Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008], and annually thereafter through 2013, the President shall submit to Congress an unclassified report, with a classified annex if necessary, which includes—“(1) an assessment of the financial, security, and personnel considerations and resources necessary to carry out the provisions of this subtitle;

“(2) the number of aliens described in section 1243(a)(1);

“(3) the number of such aliens who have applied for special immigrant visas;

“(4) the date of such applications; and

“(5) in the case of applications pending for longer than six months, the reasons that such visas have not been expeditiously processed.


“(c) Report on Iraqi Citizens and Nationals Employed by the United States Government or Federal Contractors in Iraq.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008], the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall—“(A) review internal records and databases of their respective agencies for information that can be used to verify employment of Iraqi nationals by the United States Government; and

“(B) request from each prime contractor or grantee that has performed work in Iraq since March 20, 2003, under a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement with their respective agencies that is valued in excess of $100,000 information that can be used to verify the employment of Iraqi nationals by such contractor or grantee.


“(2) Information required.—To the extent data is available, the information referred to in paragraph (1) shall include the name and dates of employment of, biometric data for, and other data that can be used to verify the employment of each Iraqi citizen or national who has performed work in Iraq since March 20, 2003, under a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement with an executive agency.

“(3) Executive agency defined.—In this subsection, the term ‘executive agency’ has the meaning given the term in section 4(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act ([former] 41 U.S.C. 403(1)) [now 41 U.S.C. 133].


“(d) Report on Establishment of Database.—Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008], the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall submit to Congress a report examining the options for establishing a unified, classified database of information related to contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements entered into by executive agencies for the performance of work in Iraq since March 20, 2003, including the information described and collected under subsection (c), to be used by relevant Federal departments and agencies to adjudicate refugee, asylum, special immigrant visa, and other immigration claims and applications.

“(e) Noncompliance Report.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008], the President shall submit a report to Congress that describes—“(1) the inability or unwillingness of any contractor or grantee to provide the information requested under subsection (c)(1)(B); and

“(2) the reasons for failing to provide such information.


“(f) Report on Improvements.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 [Dec. 26, 2013], the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit a report, with a classified annex, if necessary, to—“(A) the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and

“(B) the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.


“(2) Contents.—The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall describe the implementation of improvements to the processing of applications for special immigrant visas under section 1244(a), including information relating to—“(A) enhancing existing systems for conducting background and security checks of persons applying for special immigrant status, which shall—“(i) support immigration security; and

“(ii) provide for the orderly processing of such applications without significant delay;


“(B) the financial, security, and personnel considerations and resources necessary to carry out this subtitle;

“(C) the number of aliens who have applied for special immigrant visas under section 1244 during each month of the preceding fiscal year;

“(D) the reasons for the failure to process any applications that have been pending for longer than 9 months;

“(E) the total number of applications that are pending due to the failure—“(i) to receive approval from the Chief of Mission;

“(ii) of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services to complete the adjudication of the Form I–360;

“(iii) to conduct a visa interview; or

“(iv) to issue the visa to an eligible alien;


“(F) the average wait times for an applicant at each of the stages described in subparagraph (E);

“(G) the number of denials or rejections at each of the stages described in subparagraph (E); and

“(H) the reasons for denials by the Chief of Mission based on the categories already made available to denied special immigrant visa applicants in the denial letter sent to them by the Chief of Mission.



“(g) Public Quarterly Reports.—Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 [Dec. 26, 2013], and every 3 months thereafter, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall publish a report on the website of the Department of State that describes the efficiency improvements made in the process by which applications for special immigrant visas under section 1244(a) are processed, including information described in subparagraphs (C) through (H) of subsection (f)(2).

“(h) Senior Coordinating Officials.—“(1) Requirement to designate.—The Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of Defense shall each designate a senior coordinating official, with sufficient expertise, authority, and resources, to carry out the duties described in paragraph (2), with regard to the issuance of special immigrant visas under this subtitle and the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 [title VI of div. F of Pub. L. 111–8] (8 U.S.C. 1101 note).

“(2) Duties.—Each senior coordinating official designated under paragraph (1) shall—“(A) develop proposals to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the process for issuing special immigrant visas under this subtitle and the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009;

“(B) coordinate and monitor the implementation of such proposals;

“(C) include such proposals in the report required by subsection (f) and in each quarterly report required by subsection (g); and

“(D) implement appropriate actions as authorized by law to carry out the improvements described in the report required by subsection (f).


“(3) Submission to congress.—Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 [Dec. 26, 2013], the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of Defense shall each submit to the committees set out in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (f)(1) the name and title of the senior coordinating official designated under paragraph (1) by each such Secretary, along with a description of the relevant expertise, authority, and resources of such official.


