§ 796. Registry of disaster response contractors(a) DefinitionsIn this section—(1) the term “registry” means the registry created under subsection (b); and

(2) the terms “small business concern”, “small business concern owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals”, “small business concern owned and controlled by women”, and “small business concern owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans” have the meanings given those terms under the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.).


(b) Registry(1) In generalThe Administrator shall establish and maintain a registry of contractors who are willing to perform debris removal, distribution of supplies, reconstruction, and other disaster or emergency relief activities.


(2) ContentsThe registry shall include, for each business concern—(A) the name of the business concern;

(B) the location of the business concern;

(C) the area served by the business concern;

(D) the type of good or service provided by the business concern;

(E) the bonding level of the business concern; and

(F) whether the business concern is—(i) a small business concern;

(ii) a small business concern owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals;

(iii) a small business concern owned and controlled by women; or

(iv) a small business concern owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans.



(3) Source of information(A) SubmissionInformation maintained in the registry shall be submitted on a voluntary basis and be kept current by the submitting business concerns.


(B) AttestationEach business concern submitting information to the registry shall submit—(i) an attestation that the information is true; and

(ii) documentation supporting such attestation.


(C) VerificationThe Administrator shall verify that the documentation submitted by each business concern supports the information submitted by that business concern.



(4) Availability of registryThe registry shall be made generally available on the Internet site of the Agency.


(5) Consultation of registryAs part of the acquisition planning for contracting for debris removal, distribution of supplies in a disaster, reconstruction, and other disaster or emergency relief activities, a Federal agency shall consult the registry.



(Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 697, Oct. 4, 2006, 120 Stat. 1461.)


References in TextThe Small Business Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is Pub. L. 85–536, § 2(1 et seq.), July 18, 1958, 72 Stat. 384, which is classified generally to chapter 14A (§ 631 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 631 of Title 15 and Tables.


