§ 2108a. Treatment of certain individuals as veterans, disabled veterans, and preference eligibles(a) Veteran.—(1) In general.—Except as provided under paragraph (3),11 So in original. Subsec. does not contain a par. (3). an individual shall be treated as a veteran defined under section 2108(1) for purposes of making an appointment in the competitive service, if the individual—(A) meets the definition of a veteran under section 2108(1), except for the requirement that the individual has been discharged or released from active duty in the armed forces under honorable conditions; and

(B) submits a certification described under paragraph (2) to the Federal officer making the appointment.


(2) Certification.—A certification referred to under paragraph (1) is a certification that the individual is expected to be discharged or released from active duty in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date of the submission of the certification.


(b) Disabled Veteran.—(1) In general.—Except as provided under paragraph (3),1 an individual shall be treated as a disabled veteran defined under section 2108(2) for purposes of making an appointment in the competitive service, if the individual—(A) meets the definition of a disabled veteran under section 2108(2), except for the requirement that the individual has been separated from active duty in the armed forces under honorable conditions; and

(B) submits a certification described under paragraph (2) to the Federal officer making the appointment.


(2) Certification.—A certification referred to under paragraph (1) is a certification that the individual is expected to be separated from active duty in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date of the submission of the certification.


(c) Preference Eligible.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply with respect to determining whether an individual is a preference eligible under section 2108(3) for purposes of making an appointment in the competitive service.

(Added Pub. L. 112–56, title II, § 235(a)(1), Nov. 21, 2011, 125 Stat. 722.)
