§ 2009aa–1. Delta Regional Authority(a) Establishment(1) In generalThere is established the Delta Regional Authority.


(2) CompositionThe Authority shall be composed of—(A) a Federal member, to be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate; and

(B) the Governor (or a designee of the Governor) of each State in the region that elects to participate in the Authority.


(3) CochairpersonsThe Authority shall be headed by—(A) the Federal member, who shall serve—(i) as the Federal cochairperson; and

(ii) as a liaison between the Federal Government and the Authority; and


(B) a State cochairperson, who—(i) shall be a Governor of a participating State in the region; and

(ii) shall be elected by the State members for a term of not less than 1 year.




(b) Alternate members(1) State alternatesThe State member of a participating State may have a single alternate, who shall be—(A) a resident of that State; and

(B) appointed by the Governor of the State.


(2) Alternate Federal cochairpersonThe President shall appoint an alternate Federal cochairperson.


(3) QuorumA State alternate shall not be counted toward the establishment of a quorum of the Authority in any instance in which a quorum of the State members is required to be present.


(4) Delegation of powerNo power or responsibility of the Authority specified in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (c) of this section, and no voting right of any Authority member, shall be delegated to any person—(A) who is not an Authority member; or

(B) who is not entitled to vote in Authority meetings.



(c) Voting(1) In general—votingA decision by the Authority shall require the affirmative vote of the Federal cochairperson and a majority of the State members (not including any member representing a State that is delinquent under subsection (g)(2)(C)) to be effective.


(2) QuorumA quorum of State members shall be required to be present for the Authority to make any policy decision, including—(A) a modification or revision of an Authority policy decision;

(B) approval of a State or regional development plan; and

(C) any allocation of funds among the States.


(3) Project and grant proposalsThe approval of project and grant proposals shall be—(A) a responsibility of the Authority; and

(B) conducted in accordance with section 2009aa–8 of this title.


(4) Voting by alternate membersAn alternate member shall vote in the case of the absence, death, disability, removal, or resignation of the Federal or State representative for which the alternate member is an alternate.



(d) DutiesThe Authority shall—(1) develop, on a continuing basis, comprehensive and coordinated plans and programs to establish priorities and approve grants for the economic development of the region, giving due consideration to other Federal, State, and local planning and development activities in the region;

(2) not later than 220 days after December 21, 2000, establish priorities in a development plan for the region (including 5-year regional outcome targets);

(3) assess the needs and assets of the region based on available research, demonstrations, investigations, assessments, and evaluations of the region prepared by Federal, State, and local agencies, universities, local development districts, and other nonprofit groups;

(4) formulate and recommend to the Governors and legislatures of States that participate in the Authority forms of interstate cooperation;

(5) work with State and local agencies in developing appropriate model legislation;

(6)(A) enhance the capacity of, and provide support for, local development districts in the region; or

(B) if no local development district exists in an area in a participating State in the region, foster the creation of a local development district;


(7) encourage private investment in industrial, commercial, and other economic development projects in the region; and

(8) cooperate with and assist State governments with economic development programs of participating States.


(e) AdministrationIn carrying out subsection (d) of this section, the Authority may—(1) hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, receive such evidence, and print or otherwise reproduce and distribute a description of the proceedings and reports on actions by the Authority as the Authority considers appropriate;

(2) authorize, through the Federal or State cochairperson or any other member of the Authority designated by the Authority, the administration of oaths if the Authority determines that testimony should be taken or evidence received under oath;

(3) request from any Federal, State, or local department or agency such information as may be available to or procurable by the department or agency that may be of use to the Authority in carrying out duties of the Authority;

(4) adopt, amend, and repeal bylaws, rules, and regulations governing the conduct of Authority business and the performance of Authority duties;

(5) request the head of any Federal department or agency to detail to the Authority such personnel as the Authority requires to carry out duties of the Authority, each such detail to be without loss of seniority, pay, or other employee status;

(6) request the head of any State department or agency or local government to detail to the Authority such personnel as the Authority requires to carry out duties of the Authority, each such detail to be without loss of seniority, pay, or other employee status;

(7) provide for coverage of Authority employees in a suitable retirement and employee benefit system by—(A) making arrangements or entering into contracts with any participating State government; or

(B) otherwise providing retirement and other employee benefit coverage;


(8) accept, use, and dispose of gifts or donations of services or real, personal, tangible, or intangible property;

(9) enter into and perform such contracts, leases, cooperative agreements, or other transactions as are necessary to carry out Authority duties, including any contracts, leases, or cooperative agreements with—(A) any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States;

(B) any State (including a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the State); or

(C) any person, firm, association, or corporation; and


(10) establish and maintain a central office and field offices at such locations as the Authority may select.


(f) Federal agency cooperationA Federal agency shall—(1) cooperate with the Authority; and

(2) provide, on request of the Federal cochairperson, appropriate assistance in carrying out this subchapter, in accordance with applicable Federal laws (including regulations).


(g) Administrative expenses(1) In generalAdministrative expenses of the Authority (except for the expenses of the Federal cochairperson, including expenses of the alternate and staff of the Federal cochairperson, which shall be paid solely by the Federal Government) shall be paid—(A) by the Federal Government, in an amount equal to 50 percent of the administrative expenses; and

(B) by the States in the region participating in the Authority, in an amount equal to 50 percent of the administrative expenses.


(2) State share(A) In generalThe share of administrative expenses of the Authority to be paid by each State shall be determined by the Authority.


(B) No Federal participationThe Federal cochairperson shall not participate or vote in any decision under subparagraph (A).


(C) Delinquent StatesIf a State is delinquent in payment of the State’s share of administrative expenses of the Authority under this subsection—(i) no assistance under this subchapter shall be furnished to the State (including assistance to a political subdivision or a resident of the State); and

(ii) no member of the Authority from the State shall participate or vote in any action by the Authority.




(h) Compensation(1) Federal cochairpersonThe Federal cochairperson shall be compensated by the Federal Government at level III of the Executive Schedule in subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5.


(2) Alternate Federal cochairpersonThe alternate Federal cochairperson—(A) shall be compensated by the Federal Government at level V of the Executive Schedule described in paragraph (1); and

(B) when not actively serving as an alternate for the Federal cochairperson, shall perform such functions and duties as are delegated by the Federal cochairperson.


(3) State members and alternates(A) In generalA State shall compensate each member and alternate representing the State on the Authority at the rate established by law of the State.


(B) No additional compensationNo State member or alternate member shall receive any salary, or any contribution to or supplementation of salary from any source other than the State for services provided by the member or alternate to the Authority.



(4) Detailed employees(A) In generalNo person detailed to serve the Authority under subsection (e)(6) of this section shall receive any salary or any contribution to or supplementation of salary for services provided to the Authority from—(i) any source other than the State, local, or intergovernmental department or agency from which the person was detailed; or

(ii) the Authority.


(B) ViolationAny person that violates this paragraph shall be fined not more than $5,000, imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both.


(C) Applicable lawThe Federal cochairperson, the alternate Federal cochairperson, and any Federal officer or employee detailed to duty on the Authority under subsection (e)(5) of this section shall not be subject to subparagraph (A), but shall remain subject to sections 202 through 209 of title 18.



(5) Additional personnel(A) Compensation(i) In generalThe Authority may appoint and fix the compensation of an executive director and such other personnel as are necessary to enable the Authority to carry out the duties of the Authority.


(ii) ExceptionCompensation under clause (i) shall not exceed the maximum rate for the Senior Executive Service under section 5382 of title 5, including any applicable locality-based comparability payment that may be authorized under section 5304(h)(2)(C) of that title.



(B) Executive directorThe executive director shall be responsible for—(i) the carrying out of the administrative duties of the Authority;

(ii) direction of the Authority staff; and

(iii) such other duties as the Authority may assign.


(C) No Federal employee statusNo member, alternate, officer, or employee of the Authority (except the Federal cochairperson of the Authority, the alternate and staff for the Federal cochairperson, and any Federal employee detailed to the Authority under subsection (e)(5) of this section) shall be considered to be a Federal employee for any purpose.




(i) Conflicts of interest(1) In generalExcept as provided under paragraph (2), no State member, alternate, officer, or employee of the Authority shall participate personally and substantially as a member, alternate, officer, or employee of the Authority, through decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, the rendering of advice, investigation, or otherwise, in any proceeding, application, request for a ruling or other determination, contract, claim, controversy, or other matter in which, to knowledge of the member, alternate, officer, or employee—(A) the member, alternate, officer, or employee;

(B) the spouse, minor child, partner, or organization (other than a State or political subdivision of the State) of the member, alternate, officer, or employee, in which the member, alternate, officer, or employee is serving as officer, director, trustee, partner, or employee; or

(C) any person or organization with whom the member, alternate, officer, or employee is negotiating or has any arrangement concerning prospective employment;


has a financial interest.

(2) DisclosureParagraph (1) shall not apply if the State member, alternate, officer, or employee—(A) immediately advises the Authority of the nature and circumstances of the proceeding, application, request for a ruling or other determination, contract, claim, controversy, or other particular matter presenting a potential conflict of interest;

(B) makes full disclosure of the financial interest; and

(C) before the proceeding concerning the matter presenting the conflict of interest, receives a written determination by the Authority that the interest is not so substantial as to be likely to affect the integrity of the services that the Authority may expect from the State member, alternate, officer, or employee.


(3) ViolationAny person that violates this subsection shall be fined not more than $10,000, imprisoned not more than 2 years, or both.



(j) Validity of contracts, loans, and grantsThe Authority may declare void any contract, loan, or grant of or by the Authority in relation to which the Authority determines that there has been a violation of any provision under subsection (h)(4) of this section, subsection (i) of this section, or sections 202 through 209 of title 18.


(Pub. L. 87–128, title III, § 382B, as added Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title V, § 503], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A–269; amended Pub. L. 107–171, title VI, § 6027(a), (b), May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 373; Pub. L. 108–447, div. C, title V, § 506, Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 2963; Pub. L. 111–85, title IV, § 402, Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2878.)

Amendments2009—Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 111–85, which directed amendment of section 382B(c) of the Delta Regional Authority Act of 2000 by adding par. (1) and striking out former par. (1), was executed to this section, which is section 382B of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:
“(A) Temporary method.—During the period beginning on May 13, 2002, and ending on December 31, 2008, a decision by the Authority shall require the affirmative vote of the Federal cochairperson and a majority of the State members (not including any member representing a State that is delinquent under subsection (g)(2)(C) of this section) to be effective.
“(B) Permanent method.—Effective beginning on January 1, 2009, a decision by the Authority shall require a majority vote of the Authority (not including any member representing a State that is delinquent under subsection (g)(2)(C) of this section) to be effective.”
2004—Subsec. (c)(1)(A). Pub. L. 108–447, § 506(1), substituted “2008” for “2004”.
Subsec. (c)(1)(B). Pub. L. 108–447, § 506(2), substituted “2009” for “2005”.
2002—Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 107–171, § 6027(a), added par. (1) and struck out heading and text of former par. (1). Text read as follows: “A decision by the Authority shall require a majority vote of the Authority (not including any member representing a State that is delinquent under subsection (g)(2)(C) of this section) to be effective.”
Subsec. (e)(4). Pub. L. 107–171, § 6027(b), substituted “, rules, and regulations” for “and rules”.


