§ 499m. Complaints; procedure, penalties, etc.(a) Investigation by Secretary of Agriculture; inspection of accounts, records, and memoranda; penalty for refusing inspectionThe Secretary or his duly authorized agents shall have the right to inspect such accounts, records, and memoranda of any commission merchant, dealer, or broker as may be material (1) in the investigation of complaints under this chapter, or (2) to the determination of ownership, control, packer, or State, country, or region of origin in connection with commodity inspections, or (3) to ascertain whether section 499i of this title is being complied with, and if any such commission merchant, dealer, or broker refuses to permit such inspection, the Secretary may publish the facts and circumstances and/or, by order, suspend the license of the offender until permission to make such inspection is given. The Secretary or his duly authorized agents shall have the right to inspect any lot of any perishable agricultural commodity covered by this chapter, and if any commission merchant, dealer, or broker having ownership of or control over such lot fails or refuses to authorize or allow such inspection, the Secretary may, after thirty days’ notice and an opportunity for a hearing, publish the facts and circumstances and/or, by order, suspend the license of the offender for a period not to exceed ninety days.


(b) Inspection of records; surety bond; suspension of licenseThe Secretary or the Secretary’s duly authorized agents, in order to insure that the prompt payment provision of section 499b(4) of this title is being complied with, shall from time to time inspect the accounts, records, and memoranda of any commission merchant, dealer, or broker determined in a formal disciplinary proceeding under section 499f(b) of this title to have violated such provision. The Secretary may also require that any such commission merchant, dealer, or broker furnish, maintain, and from time to time adjust a surety bond in form and amount satisfactory to the Secretary as assurance that such commission merchant’s, dealer’s, or broker’s business will be conducted in accordance with this chapter and that such commission merchant, dealer, or broker will pay all reparation awards, subject to its right of appeal under section 499g(c) of this title: Provided, That if such surety bond is furnished, maintained, and adjusted as required by the Secretary, the Secretary shall not thereafter inspect the accounts, records, and memoranda of such commission merchant, dealer, or broker under this subsection more than once a year. If any such commission merchant, dealer, or broker refuses to permit such inspection or fails or refuses to furnish, maintain, or adjust such surety bond, the Secretary may publish the facts and circumstances and, by order, suspend the license of the offender until permission to make such inspection is given or such surety bond is furnished, maintained, or adjusted.


(c) Hearings; subpoenas; oaths; witnesses; evidenceThe Secretary, or any officer or employee designated by him for such purpose, may hold hearings, sign and issue subpoenas, administer oaths, examine witnesses, receive evidence, and require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of such accounts, records, and memoranda as may be material for the determination of any complaint under this chapter.


(d) Disobedience to subpoenas; remedy; contemptIn case of disobedience to a subpoena, the Secretary or any of his examiners may invoke the aid of any court of the United States in requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of accounts, records, and memoranda. Any district court of the United States within the jurisdiction of which any hearing is carried on may, in case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to any person, issue an order requiring the person to appear before the Secretary or his examiner or to produce accounts, records, and memoranda if so ordered, or to give evidence touching any matter pertinent to any complaint; and any failure to obey such order of the court shall be punished by the court as a contempt thereof.


(e) Depositions; production of accounts, records and memorandaThe Secretary may order testimony to be taken by deposition in any proceeding or investigation or incident to any complaint pending under this chapter at any stage thereof. Such depositions may be taken before any person designated by the Secretary and having power to administer oaths. Such testimony shall be reduced to writing by the person taking the deposition or under his direction and shall then be subscribed by the deponent. Any person may be compelled to appear and depose and to produce accounts, records, and memoranda in the same manner as witnesses may be compelled to appear and testify and produce accounts, records, and memoranda before the Secretary or any of his examiners.


(f) Fees and mileage of witnessesWitnesses summoned before the Secretary or any officer or employee designated by him shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the courts of the United States, and witnesses whose depositions are taken and the persons taking the same shall severally be entitled to the same fees as are paid for like service in the courts of the United States.


(June 10, 1930, ch. 436, § 13, 46 Stat. 536; July 30, 1956, ch. 786, § 6, 70 Stat. 727; Pub. L. 91–452, title II, § 205, Oct. 15, 1970, 84 Stat. 928; Pub. L. 95–562, § 3, Nov. 1, 1978, 92 Stat. 2381.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 563 of this title.

Amendments1978—Subsecs. (b) to (f). Pub. L. 95–562 added subsec. (b) and redesignated former subsecs. (b) to (e) as (c) to (f), respectively.
1970—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 91–452 struck out subsec. (f) which related to immunity from prosecution of any natural person compelled to testify or produce evidence, documentary or otherwise, after claiming his privilege against self-incrimination.
1956—Subsec. (a). Act July 30, 1956, permitted inspection of accounts, records and memoranda to determine ownership, control, packer, or State, country, or region of origin in connection with commodity inspection, and to ascertain whether section 499i of this title is being complied with, and to permit inspection of lots of perishable agricultural commodities.

Effective Date of 1970 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 91–452 effective on sixtieth day following Oct. 15, 1970, and not to affect any immunity to which any individual is entitled under this section by reason of any testimony given before sixtieth day following Oct. 15, 1970, see section 260 of Pub. L. 91–452, set out as an Effective Date; Savings Provision note under section 6001 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.


