§ 2102. Duties of Commission(a) In generalThe Commission is hereby authorized and directed to supervise, hold, place, protect, and make known all works of art, historical objects, and exhibits within the Senate wing of the United States Capitol, any Senate Office Buildings, and in all rooms, spaces, and corridors thereof, which are the property of the United States, and in its judgment to accept any works of art, historical objects, or exhibits which may hereafter be offered, given, or devised to the Senate, its committees, and its officers for placement and exhibition in the Senate wing of the Capitol, the Senate Office Buildings, or in rooms, spaces, or corridors thereof.


(b) Issuance and publication of regulationsThe Commission shall prescribe such regulations as it deems necessary for the care, protection, and placement of such works of art, exhibits, and historical objects in the Senate wing of the Capitol and the Senate Office Buildings, and for their acceptance on behalf of the Senate, its committees, and officers. Such regulations shall be published in the Congressional Record at such time or times as the Commission may deem necessary for the information of the Members of the Senate and the public.


(c) Consistency of regulationsRegulations authorized by the provisions of section 2183 of this title to be issued by the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate for the protection of the Capitol, and any regulations issued, or activities undertaken, by the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, or the Architect of the Capitol, in carrying out duties relating to the care, preservation, and protection of the Senate wing of the Capitol and the Senate Office Buildings, shall be consistent with such rules and regulations as the Commission may issue pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.


(d) Responsibilities of Committee on Rules and Administration of SenateThe Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate in consultation with the Architect of the Capitol and consistent with regulations prescribed by the Commission under subsection (b) of this section, shall have responsibility for the supervision, protection, and placement of all works of art, historical objects, and exhibits which shall have been accepted on behalf of the Senate by the Commission or acknowledged as United States property by inventory of the Commission, and which may be lodged in the Senate wing of the Capitol or the Senate Office Buildings by the Commission.


(Pub. L. 100–696, title IX, § 901(a), (b)(2), Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4610, 4611.)

Codification
Section was classified to section 188b–1 of former Title 40, prior to the enactment of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, by Pub. L. 107–217, § 1, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1062.
Section is based on section 2 of Senate Resolution No. 382, Ninetieth Congress, Oct. 1, 1968, which was enacted into permanent law and amended by Pub. L. 100–696.

Amendments1988—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 100–696, § 901(b)(2), substituted “protect, and make known” for “and protect” and “Senate wing of the United States Capitol, any Senate Office Buildings” for “Senate wing of the Capitol”.


