“SEC. 603. COMPOSITION OF COMMISSION.“(a) Members.—The Commission shall be composed of 10 members, of whom—“(1) 1 member shall be appointed by the President, who shall serve as chairman of the Commission;

“(2) 1 member shall be appointed by the leader of the Senate (majority or minority leader, as the case may be) of the Democratic Party, in consultation with the leader of the House of Representatives (majority or minority leader, as the case may be) of the Democratic Party, who shall serve as vice chairman of the Commission;

“(3) 2 members shall be appointed by the senior member of the Senate leadership of the Democratic Party;

“(4) 2 members shall be appointed by the senior member of the leadership of the House of Representatives of the Republican Party;

“(5) 2 members shall be appointed by the senior member of the Senate leadership of the Republican Party; and

“(6) 2 members shall be appointed by the senior member of the leadership of the House of Representatives of the Democratic Party.


“(b) Qualifications; Initial Meeting.—“(1) Political party affiliation.—Not more than 5 members of the Commission shall be from the same political party.

“(2) Nongovernmental appointees.—An individual appointed to the Commission may not be an officer or employee of the Federal Government or any State or local government.

“(3) Other qualifications.—It is the sense of Congress that individuals appointed to the Commission should be prominent United States citizens, with national recognition and significant depth of experience in such professions as governmental service, law enforcement, the armed services, law, public administration, intelligence gathering, commerce (including aviation matters), and foreign affairs.

“(4) Deadline for appointment.—All members of the Commission shall be appointed on or before December 15, 2002.

“(5) Initial meeting.—The Commission shall meet and begin the operations of the Commission as soon as practicable.


“(c) Quorum; Vacancies.—After its initial meeting, the Commission shall meet upon the call of the chairman or a majority of its members. Six members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.

