§ 5404. Good Neighbor Environmental Board(a) EstablishmentThe President shall establish an advisory board to be known as the Good Neighbor Environmental Board (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Board”).


(b) PurposeThe purpose of the Board shall be to advise the President and the Congress on the need for implementation of environmental and infrastructure projects (including projects that affect agriculture, rural development, and human nutrition) within the States of the United States contiguous to Mexico in order to improve the quality of life of persons residing on the United States side of the border.


(c) MembershipThe Board shall be composed of—(1) representatives from the United States Government, including a representative from the Department of Agriculture and representatives from other appropriate agencies;

(2) representatives from the governments of the States of Arizona, California, New Mexico, and Texas; and

(3) representatives from private organizations, including community development, academic, health, environmental, and other nongovernmental entities with experience and expertise on environmental and infrastructure problems along the southwest border.


(d) Annual reports to President and Congress(1) In generalThe Board shall submit to the President and the Congress of the United States an annual report on—(A) the environmental and infrastructure projects referred to in subsection (a) that have been implemented, and

(B) the need for the implementation of additional environmental and infrastructure projects.


(2) Transmission of copies to Board membersThe Board shall—(A) transmit to each member of the Board a copy of any report to be submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) at least 14 days before its submission, and

(B) allow each member of the Board to have 14 days within which to prepare and submit supplemental views with respect to the recommendations of the Board for inclusion in such report.



(Pub. L. 102–532, § 6, Oct. 27, 1992, 106 Stat. 3513.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative Act of 1992, and not as part of subtitle F (§ 1471 et seq.) of title XIV of Pub. L. 101–624 which comprises this chapter.


Delegation of Authority
Authority of President under this section delegated to Administrator of Environmental Protection Agency by section 10 of Ex. Ord. No. 12916, May 13, 1994, 59 F.R. 25780, set out as a note under section 3473 of Title 19, Customs Duties.

Termination of Advisory BoardsAdvisory boards established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a board established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such board is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a board established by Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See sections 3(2) and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


