§ 192. Homeland Security Institute(a) EstablishmentThe Secretary shall establish a federally funded research and development center to be known as the “Homeland Security Institute” (in this section referred to as the “Institute”).


(b) AdministrationThe Institute shall be administered as a separate entity by the Secretary.


(c) DutiesThe duties of the Institute shall be determined by the Secretary, and may include the following:(1) Systems analysis, risk analysis, and simulation and modeling to determine the vulnerabilities of the Nation’s critical infrastructures and the effectiveness of the systems deployed to reduce those vulnerabilities.

(2) Economic and policy analysis to assess the distributed costs and benefits of alternative approaches to enhancing security.

(3) Evaluation of the effectiveness of measures deployed to enhance the security of institutions, facilities, and infrastructure that may be terrorist targets.

(4) Identification of instances when common standards and protocols could improve the interoperability and effective utilization of tools developed for field operators and first responders.

(5) Assistance for Federal agencies and departments in establishing testbeds to evaluate the effectiveness of technologies under development and to assess the appropriateness of such technologies for deployment.

(6) Design of metrics and use of those metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of homeland security programs throughout the Federal Government, including all national laboratories.

(7) Design of and support for the conduct of homeland security-related exercises and simulations.

(8) Creation of strategic technology development plans to reduce vulnerabilities in the Nation’s critical infrastructure and key resources.


(d) Consultation on Institute activitiesIn carrying out the duties described in subsection (c) of this section, the Institute shall consult widely with representatives from private industry, institutions of higher education, nonprofit institutions, other Government agencies, and federally funded research and development centers.


(e) Use of centersThe Institute shall utilize the capabilities of the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center.


(f) Annual reportsThe Institute shall transmit to the Secretary and Congress an annual report on the activities of the Institute under this section.


(g) TerminationThe Homeland Security Institute shall terminate 5 years after its establishment.


(Pub. L. 107–296, title III, § 312, Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2176; Pub. L. 108–334, title V, § 519, Oct. 18, 2004, 118 Stat. 1318.)

Amendments2004—Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 108–334 amended heading and text of subsec. (g) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Homeland Security Institute shall terminate 3 years after the effective date of this chapter.”


