§ 171. Program for development of guayule and other rubber-bearing plants
The Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter called the “Secretary”) is authorized—(1) To acquire by purchase, license, or other agreement, the right to operate under processes or patents relating to the growing and harvesting of guayule or the extraction of rubber therefrom, and such properties, processes, records, and data as are necessary to such operation, including but not limited to any such rights owned or controlled by the Intercontinental Rubber Company, or any of its subsidiaries, and all equipment, materials, structures, factories, real property, seed, seedlings, growing shrub, and other facilities, patents and processes of the Intercontinental Rubber Company, or any of its subsidiaries, located in California, and for such rights, properties, and facilities of the Intercontinental Rubber Company or any of its subsidiaries, the Secretary is authorized to pay not to exceed $2,000,000;

(2) To plant, or contract for the planting of, not in excess of five hundred thousand acres of guayule in areas in the Western Hemisphere where the best growth and yields may be expected in order to maintain a nucleus planting of guayule to serve as a domestic source of crude rubber as well as of planting material for use in further expanding guayule planting to meet emergency needs of the United States for crude rubber; to establish and maintain nurseries to provide seedlings for field plants; and to purchase necessary equipment, facilities, land for nurseries and administrative sites and water rights;

(3) To acquire by lease, or other agreement, for not exceeding ten years, rights to land for the purpose of making plantings of guayule; to acquire water rights; to erect necessary buildings on leased land where suitable land cannot be purchased; to make surveys, directly or through appropriate Government agencies, of areas in the Western Hemisphere where guayule might be grown; and to establish and maintain records indicating areas to which guayule cultivation could be extended for emergency production;

(4) To construct or operate, or to contract for the operation of, factories for the extraction of rubber from guayule, and from Chrysothamnus, commonly known as rabbit brush; to purchase guayule shrub; and to purchase, operate, and maintain equipment for the harvesting, storing, transporting, and complete processing of guayule, and Chrysothamnus, commonly known as rabbit brush, and to purchase land as sites for processing plants;

(5) To conduct studies, in which he may cooperate with any other public or private agency, designed to increase the yield of guayule by breeding or by selection, and to improve planting methods; to make surveys of areas suitable for cultivating guayule; to make experimental plantings; and to conduct agronomic tests;

(6) To conduct tests, in which he may cooperate with any other public or private agency, to determine the qualities of rubber obtained from guayule and to determine the most favorable methods of compounding and using guayule in rubber manufacturing processes;

(7) To improve methods of processing guayule shrubs and rubber and to obtain and hold patents on such new processes;

(8) To sell guayule or rubber processed from guayule and to use funds so obtained in replanting and maintaining an area not in excess of five hundred thousand acres of guayule inside the Western Hemisphere; and

(9) To exercise with respect to rubber-bearing plants other than guayule the same powers as are granted in the foregoing provisions of this section with respect to guayule.

(Mar. 5, 1942, ch. 140, § 1, 56 Stat. 126; Oct. 20, 1942, ch. 617, §§ 1–4, 56 Stat. 796, 797.)

Amendments1942—Par. (2). Act Oct. 20, 1942, § 1, increased acreage from 75,000 to 500,000 and inserted reference to land for administrative sites and water rights.
Par. (3). Act Oct. 20, 1942, § 2, inserted “to acquire water rights; to erect necessary buildings on leased land where suitable land cannot be purchased;”.
Par. (4). Act Oct. 20, 1942, § 3, inserted “to purchase guayule shrub;”.
Par. (8). Act Oct. 20, 1942, § 4, substituted “not in excess of five hundred” for “of seventy-five”.

Additional Acreage AuthorizedAct Oct. 26, 1942, ch. 629, title II, 56 Stat. 1002, provided that: “The Secretary of Agriculture, in connection with the appropriations herein and heretofore made for such project, is authorized to plant, or contract for the planting of, not to exceed twenty-five thousand acres of guayule in areas in the Western Hemisphere in addition to the acreage permitted under the provisions of paragraph (1), section 1 of the act of March 5, 1942 (Public Law 473) [par. (1) of this section].”



