§ 5104. Basis for grading positions
The General Schedule, the symbol for which is “GS”, is the basic pay schedule for positions to which this chapter applies. The General Schedule is divided into grades of difficulty and responsibility of work, as follows:(1) Grade GS–1 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are to perform, under immediate supervision, with little or no latitude for the exercise of independent judgment—(A) the simplest routine work in office, business, or fiscal operations; or

(B) elementary work of a subordinate technical character in a professional, scientific, or technical field.


(2) Grade GS–2 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under immediate supervision, with limited latitude for the exercise of independent judgment, routine work in office, business, or fiscal operations, or comparable subordinate technical work of limited scope in a professional, scientific, or technical field, requiring some training or experience; or

(B) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(3) Grade GS–3 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under immediate or general supervision, somewhat difficult and responsible work in office, business, or fiscal operations, or comparable subordinate technical work of limited scope in a professional, scientific, or technical field, requiring in either case—(i) some training or experience;

(ii) working knowledge of a special subject matter; or

(iii) to some extent the exercise of independent judgment in accordance with well-established policies, procedures, and techniques; or


(B) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(4) Grade GS–4 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under immediate or general supervision, moderately difficult and responsible work in office, business, or fiscal operations, or comparable subordinate technical work in a professional, scientific, or technical field, requiring in either case—(i) a moderate amount of training and minor supervisory or other experience;

(ii) good working knowledge of a special subject matter or a limited field of office, laboratory, engineering, scientific, or other procedure and practice; and

(iii) the exercise of independent judgment in accordance with well-established policies, procedures, and techniques; or


(B) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(5) Grade GS–5 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under general supervision, difficult and responsible work in office, business, or fiscal administration, or comparable subordinate technical work in a professional, scientific, or technical field, requiring in either case—(i) considerable training and supervisory or other experience;

(ii) broad working knowledge of a special subject matter or of office, laboratory, engineering, scientific, or other procedure and practice; and

(iii) the exercise of independent judgment in a limited field;


(B) to perform, under immediate supervision, and with little opportunity for the exercise of independent judgment, simple and elementary work requiring professional, scientific, or technical training; or

(C) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(6) Grade GS–6 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under general supervision, difficult and responsible work in office, business, or fiscal administration, or comparable subordinate technical work in a professional, scientific, or technical field, requiring in either case—(i) considerable training and supervisory or other experience;

(ii) broad working knowledge of a special and complex subject matter, procedure, or practice, or of the principles of the profession, art, or science involved; and

(iii) to a considerable extent the exercise of independent judgment; or


(B) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(7) Grade GS–7 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under general supervision, work of considerable difficulty and responsibility along special technical or supervisory lines in office, business, or fiscal administration, or comparable subordinate technical work in a professional, scientific, or technical field, requiring in either case—(i) considerable specialized or supervisory training and experience;

(ii) comprehensive working knowledge of a special and complex subject matter; procedure, or practice, or of the principles of the profession, art, or science involved; and

(iii) to a considerable extent the exercise of independent judgment;


(B) under immediate or general supervision, to perform somewhat difficult work requiring—(i) professional, scientific, or technical training; and

(ii) to a limited extent, the exercise of independent technical judgment; or


(C) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(8) Grade GS–8 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under general supervision, very difficult and responsible work along special technical or supervisory lines in office, business, or fiscal administration, requiring—(i) considerable specialized or supervisory training and experience;

(ii) comprehensive and thorough working knowledge of a specialized and complex subject matter, procedure, or practice, or of the principles of the profession, art, or science involved; and

(iii) to a considerable extent the exercise of independent judgment; or


(B) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(9) Grade GS–9 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under general supervision, very difficult and responsible work along special technical, supervisory, or administrative lines in office, business, or fiscal administration, requiring—(i) somewhat extended specialized training and considerable specialized, supervisory, or administrative experience which has demonstrated capacity for sound independent work;

(ii) thorough and fundamental knowledge of a special and complex subject matter, or of the profession, art, or science involved; and

(iii) considerable latitude for the exercise of independent judgment;


(B) with considerable latitude for the exercise of independent judgment, to perform moderately difficult and responsible work, requiring—(i) professional, scientific, or technical training equivalent to that represented by graduation from a college or university of recognized standing; and

(ii) considerable additional professional, scientific, or technical training or experience which has demonstrated capacity for sound independent work; or


(C) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(10) Grade GS–10 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under general supervision, highly difficult and responsible work along special technical, supervisory, or administrative lines in office, business, or fiscal administration, requiring—(i) somewhat extended specialized, supervisory, or administrative training and experience which has demonstrated capacity for sound independent work;

(ii) thorough and fundamental knowledge of a specialized and complex subject matter, or of the profession, art, or science involved; and

(iii) considerable latitude for the exercise of independent judgment; or


(B) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(11) Grade GS–11 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under general administrative supervision and with wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment, work of marked difficulty and responsibility along special technical, supervisory, or administrative lines in office, business, or fiscal administration, requiring—(i) extended specialized, supervisory, or administrative training and experience which has demonstrated important attainments and marked capacity for sound independent action or decision; and

(ii) intimate grasp of a specialized and complex subject matter, or of the profession, art, or science involved, or of administrative work of marked difficulty;


(B) with wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment, to perform responsible work of considerable difficulty requiring somewhat extended professional, scientific, or technical training and experience which has demonstrated important attainments and marked capacity for independent work; or

(C) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(12) Grade GS–12 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under general administrative supervision, with wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment, work of a very high order of difficulty and responsibility along special technical, supervisory, or administrative lines in office, business, or fiscal administration, requiring—(i) extended specialized, supervisory, or administrative training and experience which has demonstrated leadership and attainments of a high order in specialized or administrative work; and

(ii) intimate grasp of a specialized and complex subject matter or of the profession, art, or science involved;


(B) under general administrative supervision, and with wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment, to perform professional, scientific, or technical work of marked difficulty and responsibility requiring extended professional, scientific, or technical training and experience which has demonstrated leadership and attainments of a high order in professional, scientific, or technical research, practice, or administration; or

(C) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(13) Grade GS–13 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under administrative direction, with wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment, work of unusual difficulty and responsibility along special technical, supervisory, or administrative lines, requiring extended specialized, supervisory, or administrative training and experience which has demonstrated leadership and marked attainments;

(B) to serve as assistant head of a major organization involving work of comparable level within a bureau;

(C) to perform, under administrative direction, with wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment, work of unusual difficulty and responsibility requiring extended professional, scientific, or technical training and experience which has demonstrated leadership and marked attainments in professional, scientific, or technical research, practice, or administration; or

(D) to perform other work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(14) Grade GS–14 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under general administrative direction, with wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment, work of exceptional difficulty and responsibility along special technical, supervisory, or administrative lines which has demonstrated leadership and unusual attainments;

(B) to serve as head of a major organization within a bureau involving work of comparable level;

(C) to plan and direct or to plan and execute major professional, scientific, technical, administrative, fiscal, or other specialized programs, requiring extended training and experience which has demonstrated leadership and unusual attainments in professional, scientific, or technical research, practice, or administration, or in administrative, fiscal, or other specialized activities; or

(D) to perform consulting or other professional, scientific, technical, administrative, fiscal, or other specialized work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(15) Grade GS–15 includes those classes of positions the duties of which are—(A) to perform, under general administrative direction, with very wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment, work of outstanding difficulty and responsibility along special technical, supervisory, or administrative lines which has demonstrated leadership and exceptional attainments;

(B) to serve as head of a major organization within a bureau involving work of comparable level;

(C) to plan and direct or to plan and execute specialized programs of marked difficulty, responsibility, and national significance, along professional, scientific, technical, administrative, fiscal, or other lines, requiring extended training and experience which has demonstrated leadership and unusual attainments in professional, scientific, or technical research, practice, or administration, or in administrative, fiscal, or other specialized activities; or

(D) to perform consulting or other professional, scientific, technical, administrative, fiscal, or other specialized work of equal importance, difficulty, and responsibility, and requiring comparable qualifications.


(Pub. L. 89–554, Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 446; Pub. L. 101–509, title V, § 529 [title I, § 102(b)(1)], Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1427, 1443.)











Historical and Revision Notes


DerivationU.S. CodeRevised Statutes andStatutes at Large


 5 U.S.C. 1111.Oct. 28, 1949, ch. 782, § 601, 63 Stat. 959.Sept. 1, 1954, ch. 1208, § 107, 68 Stat. 1108.
 5 U.S.C. 1112.Oct. 28, 1949, ch. 782, § 602, 63 Stat. 959.
  Sept. 1, 1954, ch. 1208, § 108, 68 Stat. 1108.
  June 20, 1958, Pub. L. 85–462, § 13(a), 72 Stat. 214.


Former sections 1111 and 1112 are combined and restated.
Standard changes are made to conform with the definitions applicable and the style of this title as outlined in the preface to the report.


References in TextThe General Schedule, referred to in text, is set out under section 5332 of this title.

Amendments1990—Pub. L. 101–509 struck out “18” before “grades” in introductory provisions and struck out pars. (16) to (18) which described grades GS–16 to GS–18.

Effective Date of 1990 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 101–509 effective on such date as the President shall determine, but not earlier than 90 days, and not later than 180 days, after Nov. 5, 1990, see section 529 [title III, § 305] of Pub. L. 101–509, set out as a note under section 5301 of this title.

Job Evaluation Policy Act of 1970Pub. L. 91–216, May 17, 1970, 84 Stat. 72, provided: 
“That this Act may be cited as the ‘Job Evaluation Policy Act of 1970’.
“Title I—Congressional Findings With Respect to Job Evaluation and Ranking in the Executive Branch“Sec. 101. The Congress hereby finds that—“(1) the tremendous growth required in the activities of the Federal Government in order to meet the country’s needs during the past several decades has led to the need for employees in an ever-increasing and changing variety of occupations and professions, many of which did not exist when the basic principles of job evaluation and ranking were established by the Classification Act of 1923 [Act Mar. 4, 1923, ch. 265, 42 Stat. 1488]. The diverse and constantly changing nature of these occupations and professions requires that the Federal Government reassess its approach to job evaluation and ranking better to fulfill its role as an employer and assure efficient economical administration;

“(2) the large number and variety of job evaluation and ranking systems in the executive branch have resulted in significant inequities in selection, promotion, and pay of employees in comparable positions among these systems;

“(3) little effort has been made by Congress or the executive branch to consolidate or coordinate the various job evaluation and ranking systems, and there has been no progress toward the establishment of a coordinated system in which job evaluation and ranking, regardless of the methods used, is related to a unified set of principles providing coherence and equity throughout the executive branch;

“(4) within the executive branch, there has been no significant study of, or experimentation with the several recognized methods of job evaluation and ranking to determine which of those methods are most appropriate for use and application to meet the present and future needs of the Federal Government; and

“(5) notwithstanding the recommendations resulting from the various studies conducted during the last twenty years, the Federal Government has not taken the initiative to implement those recommendations with respect to the job evaluation and ranking systems within the executive branch, with the result that such systems have not, in many cases, been adapted or administered to meet the rapidly changing needs of the Federal Government.

