§ 940f. Extension of period of existing guarantee(a) In generalSubject to the limitations in this section and the provisions of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 [2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.], as amended, a borrower of a loan made by the Federal Financing Bank and guaranteed under this chapter may request an extension of the final maturity of the outstanding principal balance of such loan or any loan advance thereunder. If the Secretary and the Federal Financing Bank approve such an extension, then the period of the existing guarantee shall also be considered extended.


(b) Limitations(1) Feasibility and securityExtensions under this section shall not be made unless the Secretary first finds and certifies that, after giving effect to the extension, in his judgment the security for all loans to the borrower made or guaranteed under this chapter is reasonably adequate and that all such loans will be repaid within the time agreed.


(2) Extension of useful life or collateralExtensions under this section shall not be granted unless the borrower first submits with its request either—(A) evidence satisfactory to the Secretary that a Federal or State agency with jurisdiction and expertise has made an official determination, such as through a licensing proceeding, extending the useful life of a generating plant or transmission line pledged as collateral to or beyond the new final maturity date being requested by the borrower, or

(B) a certificate from an independent licensed engineer concluding, on the basis of a thorough engineering analysis satisfactory to the Secretary, that the useful life of the generating plant or transmission line pledged as collateral extends to or beyond the new final maturity date being requested by the borrower.


(3) Amount eligible for extensionExtensions under this section shall not be granted if the principal balance extended exceeds the appraised value of the generating plant or transmission line referred to in subsection paragraph (2).


(4) Period of extensionExtensions under this section shall in no case result in a final maturity greater than 55 years from the time of original disbursement and shall in no case result in a final maturity greater than the useful life of the plant.


(5) Number of extensionsExtensions under this section shall not be granted more than once per loan advance.



(c) Fees(1) In generalA borrower that receives an extension under this section shall pay a fee to the Secretary which shall be credited to the Rural Electrification and Telecommunications Loans Program account. Such fees shall remain available without fiscal year limitation to pay the modification costs for extensions.


(2) AmountThe amount of the fee paid shall be equal to the modification cost, calculated in accordance with section 502 of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 [2 U.S.C. 661a], as amended, of such extension.


(3) PaymentThe borrower shall pay the fee required under this section at the time the existing guarantee is extended by making a payment in the amount of the required fee.



(May 20, 1936, ch. 432, title III, § 316, as added Pub. L. 109–97, title VII, § 774, Nov. 10, 2005, 119 Stat. 2160.)


References in TextThe Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, referred to in subsec. (a), is title V of Pub. L. 93–344, as added by Pub. L. 101–508, title XIII, § 13201(a), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1388–609, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 661 et seq.) of chapter 17A of Title 2, The Congress. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 621 of Title 2 and Tables.


