§ 6101. Transfer of funds from appropriations account of the Office of the Vice President and the Offices of the Secretaries for the Majority and Minority to the Senate contingent fund(a) Office of the Vice President(1) In generalUpon the written request of the Vice President, the Secretary of the Senate shall transfer from the appropriations account appropriated under the subheading “office of the vice president” under the heading “Salaries, Officers and Employees” such amount as the Vice President shall specify to the appropriations account under the heading “miscellaneous items” within the contingent fund of the Senate.


(2) Authority to incur expensesThe Vice President may incur such expenses as may be necessary or appropriate. Expenses incurred by the Vice President shall be paid from the amount transferred under paragraph (1) by the Vice President and upon vouchers approved by the Vice President.


(3) Authority to advance sumsThe Secretary of the Senate may advance such sums as may be necessary to defray expenses incurred in carrying out paragraphs (1) and (2).



(b) Offices of the Secretaries for the Majority and Minority(1) In generalUpon the written request of the Secretary for the Majority or the Secretary for the Minority, the Secretary of the Senate shall transfer from the appropriations account appropriated under the subheading “offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority” under the heading “Salaries, Officers and Employees” such amount as the Secretary for the Majority or the Secretary for the Minority shall specify to the appropriations account under the heading “miscellaneous items” within the contingent fund of the Senate.


(2) Authority to incur expensesThe Secretary for the Majority or the Secretary for the Minority may incur such expenses as may be necessary or appropriate. Expenses incurred by the Secretary for the Majority or the Secretary for the Minority shall be paid from the amount transferred under paragraph (1) by the Secretary for the Majority or the Secretary for the Minority and upon vouchers approved by the Secretary for the Majority or the Secretary for the Minority, as applicable.


(3) Authority to advance sumsThe Secretary of the Senate may advance such sums as may be necessary to defray expenses incurred in carrying out paragraphs (1) and (2).



(c) Effective dateThis section shall apply to fiscal year 2005 and each fiscal year thereafter.


(Pub. L. 108–447, div. G, title I, § 5, Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 3169.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 31a–2d of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
Section is from the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2005, which is div. G of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005.


