§ 611. Administration and coordination(a) Regional coordinationThe Administrator shall ensure that—(1) all recipients of grants administered by the Department to prevent, prepare for, protect against, or respond to natural disasters, acts of terrorism, or other man-made disasters (excluding assistance provided under section 203, title IV, or title V of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133, 5170 et seq., and 5191 et seq.)) coordinate, as appropriate, their prevention, preparedness, and protection efforts with neighboring State, local, and tribal governments; and

(2) all high-risk urban areas and other recipients of grants administered by the Department to prevent, prepare for, protect against, or respond to natural disasters, acts of terrorism, or other man-made disasters (excluding assistance provided under section 203, title IV, or title V of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133, 5170 et seq., and 5191 et seq.)) that include or substantially affect parts or all of more than 1 State coordinate, as appropriate, across State boundaries, including, where appropriate, through the use of regional working groups and requirements for regional plans.


(b) Planning committees(1) In generalAny State or high-risk urban area receiving a grant under section 604 or 605 of this title shall establish a planning committee to assist in preparation and revision of the State, regional, or local homeland security plan and to assist in determining effective funding priorities for grants under sections 604 and 605 of this title.


(2) Composition(A) In generalThe planning committee shall include representatives of significant stakeholders, including—(i) local and tribal government officials; and

(ii) emergency response providers, which shall include representatives of the fire service, law enforcement, emergency medical response, and emergency managers.


(B) Geographic representationThe members of the planning committee shall be a representative group of individuals from the counties, cities, towns, and Indian tribes within the State or high-risk urban area, including, as appropriate, representatives of rural, high-population, and high-threat jurisdictions.



(3) Existing planning committeesNothing in this subsection may be construed to require that any State or high-risk urban area create a planning committee if that State or high-risk urban area has established and uses a multijurisdictional planning committee or commission that meets the requirements of this subsection.



(c) Interagency coordination(1) In generalNot later than 12 months after August 3, 2007, the Secretary (acting through the Administrator), the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the heads of other agencies providing assistance to State, local, and tribal governments for preventing, preparing for, protecting against, and responding to natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters, shall jointly—(A) compile a comprehensive list of Federal grant programs for State, local, and tribal governments for preventing, preparing for, protecting against, and responding to natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters;

(B) compile the planning, reporting, application, and other requirements and guidance for the grant programs described in subparagraph (A);

(C) develop recommendations, as appropriate, to—(i) eliminate redundant and duplicative requirements for State, local, and tribal governments, including onerous application and ongoing reporting requirements;

(ii) ensure accountability of the programs to the intended purposes of such programs;

(iii) coordinate allocation of grant funds to avoid duplicative or inconsistent purchases by the recipients;

(iv) make the programs more accessible and user friendly to applicants; and

(v) ensure the programs are coordinated to enhance the overall preparedness of the Nation;


(D) submit the information and recommendations under subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) to the appropriate committees of Congress; and

(E) provide the appropriate committees of Congress, the Comptroller General, and any officer or employee of the Government Accountability Office with full access to any information collected or reviewed in preparing the submission under subparagraph (D).


(2) Scope of taskNothing in this subsection shall authorize the elimination, or the alteration of the purposes, as delineated by statute, regulation, or guidance, of any grant program that exists on August 3, 2007, nor authorize the review or preparation of proposals on the elimination, or the alteration of such purposes, of any such grant program.



(d) Sense of CongressIt is the sense of Congress that, in order to ensure that the Nation is most effectively able to prevent, prepare for, protect against, and respond to all hazards, including natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters—(1) the Department should administer a coherent and coordinated system of both terrorism-focused and all-hazards grants;

(2) there should be a continuing and appropriate balance between funding for terrorism-focused and all-hazards preparedness, as reflected in the authorizations of appropriations for grants under the amendments made by titles I and II, as applicable, of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007; and

(3) with respect to terrorism-focused grants, it is necessary to ensure both that the target capabilities of the highest risk areas are achieved quickly and that basic levels of preparedness, as measured by the attainment of target capabilities, are achieved nationwide.


(Pub. L. 107–296, title XX, § 2021, as added Pub. L. 110–53, title I, § 101, Aug. 3, 2007, 121 Stat. 285.)


References in TextThe Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 93–288, May 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 143. Section 203 of the Act is classified to section 5133 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. Titles IV and V of the Act are classified generally to subchapters IV (§ 5170 et seq.) and IV–A (§ 5191 et seq.), respectively, of chapter 68 of Title 42. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5121 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), is Pub. L. 110–53, Aug. 3, 2007, 121 Stat. 266. Title I of the Act enacted this subchapter and amended sections 318, 321a, 594, 596, and 752 of this title. Title II of the Act amended section 762 of this title and section 5196c of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of titles I and II to the Code, see Tables.


