§ 1711. Authorization of appropriations for hiring and training Government personnel(a) Additional personnel(1) INS inspectorsSubject to the availability of appropriations, during each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2006, the Attorney General shall increase the number of inspectors and associated support staff in the Immigration and Naturalization Service by the equivalent of at least 200 full-time employees over the number of inspectors and associated support staff in the Immigration and Naturalization Service authorized by the USA PATRIOT Act.


(2) INS investigative personnelSubject to the availability of appropriations, during each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2006, the Attorney General shall increase the number of investigative and associated support staff of the Immigration and Naturalization Service by the equivalent of at least 200 full-time employees over the number of investigators and associated support staff in the Immigration and Naturalization Service authorized by the USA PATRIOT Act.


(3) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this subsection, including such sums as may be necessary to provide facilities, attorney personnel and support staff, and other resources needed to support the increased number of inspectors, investigative staff, and associated support staff.



(b) Authorization of appropriations for INS staffing(1) 11 So in original. No par. (2) has been enacted. In generalThere are authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Justice such sums as may be necessary to provide an increase in the annual rate of basic pay effective October 1, 2002—(A) for all journeyman Border Patrol agents and inspectors who have completed at least one year’s service and are receiving an annual rate of basic pay for positions at GS–9 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5 from the annual rate of basic pay payable for positions at GS–9 of the General Schedule under such section 5332, to an annual rate of basic pay payable for positions at GS–11 of the General Schedule under such section 5332;

(B) for inspections assistants, from the annual rate of basic pay payable for positions at GS–5 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5 to an annual rate of basic pay payable for positions at GS–7 of the General Schedule under such section 5332; and

(C) for the support staff associated with the personnel described in subparagraphs (A) and (B), at the appropriate GS level of the General Schedule under such section 5332.



(c) Authorization of appropriations for trainingThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary—(1) to appropriately train Immigration and Naturalization Service personnel on an ongoing basis—(A) to ensure that their proficiency levels are acceptable to protect the borders of the United States; and

(B) otherwise to enforce and administer the laws within their jurisdiction;


(2) to provide adequate continuing cross-training to agencies staffing the United States border and ports of entry to effectively and correctly apply applicable United States laws;

(3) to fully train immigration officers to use the appropriate lookout databases and to monitor passenger traffic patterns; and

(4) to expand the Carrier Consultant Program described in section 1225a(b) of this title.22 See References in Text note below.


(d) Authorization of appropriations for consular functions(1) ResponsibilitiesThe Secretary of State shall—(A) implement enhanced security measures for the review of visa applicants;

(B) staff the facilities and programs associated with the activities described in subparagraph (A); and

(C) provide ongoing training for consular officers and diplomatic security agents.


(2) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated for the Department of State such sums as may be necessary to carry out paragraph (1).



(Pub. L. 107–173, title I, § 101, May 14, 2002, 116 Stat. 545.)


References in TextThe USA PATRIOT Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), (2), is Pub. L. 107–56, Oct. 26, 2001, 115 Stat. 272, also known as the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2001 Amendment note set out under section 1 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and Tables.
Section 1225a(b) of this title, referred to in subsec. (c)(4), was in the original “section 235(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1225A(b))” and was translated as reading section 235A(b) of that Act to reflect the probable intent of Congress because that section 235A(b) describes the Carrier Consultant Program.


Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.


