§ 7633. Food and agriculture service learning program(a) In generalSubject to the availability of appropriations under subsection (e), the Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, and working in consultation with other appropriate Federal agencies that oversee national service programs, shall administer a competitively awarded food and agriculture service learning grant program (referred to in this section as the “Program”) to increase knowledge of agriculture and improve the nutritional health of children.


(b) PurposesThe purposes of the Program are—(1) to increase capacity for food, garden, and nutrition education within host organizations or entities and school cafeterias and in the classroom;

(2) to complement and build on the efforts of the farm to school programs implemented under section 18(g) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(g));

(3) to complement efforts by the Department and school food authorities to implement the school lunch program established under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) and the school breakfast program established by section 1773 of title 42;

(4) to carry out activities that advance the nutritional health of children and nutrition education in elementary schools and secondary schools (as those terms are defined in section 7801 of title 20); and

(5) to foster higher levels of community engagement and support the expansion of national service and volunteer opportunities.


(c) Grants(1) In generalIn carrying out the Program, the Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture shall make competitive grants to eligible entities that carry out the purposes described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (b).


(2) PrioritiesIn making grants under this section, the Secretary may consider projects that are carried out by entities that—(A) have a proven track record in carrying out the purposes described in subsection (b);

(B) work in underserved rural and urban communities;

(C) teach and engage children in experiential learning about agriculture, gardening, nutrition, cooking, and where food comes from; and

(D) facilitate a connection between elementary schools and secondary schools and agricultural producers in the local and regional area.



(d) Accountability(1) In generalThe Secretary may require a partner organization or other qualified entity to collect and report any data on the activities carried out under the Program, as determined by the Secretary.


(2) EvaluationThe Secretary shall—(A) conduct regular evaluations of the activities carried out under the Program; and

(B) submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that includes a description of the results of each evaluation conducted under subparagraph (A).



(e) Funding(1) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program $25,000,000, to remain available until expended.


(2) AdministrationParagraphs (4), (7), (8), and (11)(B) of subsection (b) of section 450i(b) of this title shall apply with respect to the making of a competitive grant under this section.


(3) Maintenance of effortFunds made available under paragraph (1) shall be used only to supplement, not to supplant, the amount of Federal funding otherwise expended for nutrition, research, and extension programs of the Department.



(Pub. L. 105–185, title IV, § 413, as added Pub. L. 113–79, title IV, § 4209, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 829.)


References in TextThe Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is act June 4, 1946, ch. 281, 60 Stat. 230, which is classified generally to chapter 13 (§ 1751 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1751 of Title 42 and Tables.


