“SEC. 1243. UNITED STATES REFUGEE PROGRAM PROCESSING PRIORITIES.“(a) In General.—Refugees of special humanitarian concern eligible for Priority 2 processing under the refugee resettlement priority system who may apply directly to the United States Admission Program shall include—“(1) Iraqis who were or are employed by the United States Government, in Iraq;

“(2) Iraqis who establish to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that they are or were employed in Iraq by—“(A) a media or nongovernmental organization headquartered in the United States; or

“(B) an organization or entity closely associated with the United States mission in Iraq that has received United States Government funding through an official and documented contract, award, grant, or cooperative agreement; and


“(3) spouses, children, and parents whether or not accompanying or following to join, and sons, daughters, and siblings of aliens described in paragraph (1), paragraph (2), or section 1244(b)(1); and

“(4) Iraqis who are members of a religious or minority community, have been identified by the Secretary of State, or the designee of the Secretary, as a persecuted group, and have close family members (as described in section 201(b)(2)(A)(i) or 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151(b)(2)(A)(i) and 1153(a))) in the United States.


“(b) Identification of Other Persecuted Groups.—The Secretary of State, or the designee of the Secretary, is authorized to identify other Priority 2 groups of Iraqis, including vulnerable populations.

“(c) Ineligible Organizations and Entities.—Organizations and entities described in subsection (a)(2) shall not include any that appear on the Department of the Treasury’s list of Specially Designated Nationals or any entity specifically excluded by the Secretary of Homeland Security, after consultation with the Secretary of State and the heads of relevant elements of the intelligence community (as defined in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401a(4)) [now 50 U.S.C. 3003(4)]).

“(d) Applicability of Other Requirements.—Aliens under this section who qualify for Priority 2 processing under the refugee resettlement priority system shall satisfy the requirements of section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1157) for admission to the United States.

“(e) Numerical Limitations.—In determining the number of Iraqi refugees who should be resettled in the United States under paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (a) and subsection (b) of section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1157), the President shall consult with the heads of nongovernmental organizations that have a presence in Iraq or experience in assessing the problems faced by Iraqi refugees.

“(f) Eligibility for Admission as Refugee.—No alien shall be denied the opportunity to apply for admission under this section solely because such alien qualifies as an immediate relative or is eligible for any other immigrant classification.

