§ 1722. Interoperable law enforcement and intelligence data system with name-matching capacity and training(a) Interoperable law enforcement and intelligence electronic data system(1) Requirement for integrated immigration and naturalization data systemThe Immigration and Naturalization Service shall fully integrate all databases and data systems maintained by the Service that process or contain information on aliens. The fully integrated data system shall be an interoperable component of the electronic data system described in paragraph (2).


(2) Requirement for interoperable data systemUpon the date of commencement of implementation of the plan required by section 1721(c) of this title, the President shall develop and implement an interoperable electronic data system to provide current and immediate access to information in databases of Federal law enforcement agencies and the intelligence community that is relevant to determine whether to issue a visa or to determine the admissibility or deportability of an alien (also known as the “Chimera system”).


(3) Consultation requirementIn the development and implementation of the data system under this subsection, the President shall consult with the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and any such other agency as may be deemed appropriate.


(4) Technology standard(A) In generalThe data system developed and implemented under this subsection, and the databases referred to in paragraph (2), shall utilize the technology standard established pursuant to section 1379 of this title.


(B) Omitted


(5) Access to information in data systemSubject to paragraph (6), information in the data system under this subsection shall be readily and easily accessible—(A) to any consular officer responsible for the issuance of visas;

(B) to any Federal official responsible for determining an alien’s admissibility to or deportability from the United States; and

(C) to any Federal law enforcement or intelligence officer determined by regulation to be responsible for the investigation or identification of aliens.


(6) Limitation on accessThe President shall, in accordance with applicable Federal laws, establish procedures to restrict access to intelligence information in the data system under this subsection, and the databases referred to in paragraph (2), under circumstances in which such information is not to be disclosed directly to Government officials under paragraph (5).



(b) Name-search capacity and support(1) In generalThe interoperable electronic data system required by subsection (a) of this section shall—(A) have the capacity to compensate for disparate name formats among the different databases referred to in subsection (a) of this section;

(B) be searchable on a linguistically sensitive basis;

(C) provide adequate user support;

(D) to the extent practicable, utilize commercially available technology; and

(E) be adjusted and improved, based upon experience with the databases and improvements in the underlying technologies and sciences, on a continuing basis.


(2) Linguistically sensitive searches(A) In generalTo satisfy the requirement of paragraph (1)(B), the interoperable electronic database shall be searchable based on linguistically sensitive algorithms that—(i) account for variations in name formats and transliterations, including varied spellings and varied separation or combination of name elements, within a particular language; and

(ii) incorporate advanced linguistic, mathematical, statistical, and anthropological research and methods.


(B) Languages required(i) Priority languagesLinguistically sensitive algorithms shall be developed and implemented for no fewer than 4 languages designated as high priorities by the Secretary of State, after consultation with the Attorney General and the Director of Central Intelligence.


(ii) Implementation scheduleOf the 4 linguistically sensitive algorithms required to be developed and implemented under clause (i)—(I) the highest priority language algorithms shall be implemented within 18 months after May 14, 2002; and

(II) an additional language algorithm shall be implemented each succeeding year for the next three years.




(3) Adequate user supportThe Secretary of State and the Attorney General shall jointly prescribe procedures to ensure that consular and immigration officers can, as required, obtain assistance in resolving identity and other questions that may arise about the names of aliens seeking visas or admission to the United States that may be subject to variations in format, transliteration, or other similar phenomenon.


(4) Interim reportsSix months after May 14, 2002, the President shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of Congress on the progress in implementing each requirement of this section.


(5) Reports by intelligence agencies(A) Current standardsNot later than 60 days after May 14, 2002, the Director of Central Intelligence shall complete the survey and issue the report previously required by section 309(a) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (50 U.S.C. 403–3 note).11 See References in Text note below.


(B) GuidelinesNot later than 120 days after May 14, 2002, the Director of Central Intelligence shall issue the guidelines and submit the copy of those guidelines previously required by section 309(b) of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998.



(6) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this subsection.



(Pub. L. 107–173, title II, § 202, May 14, 2002, 116 Stat. 548.)


References in TextSection 309 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998, referred to in subsec. (b)(5), is section 309 of Pub. L. 105–107, title III, Nov. 20, 1997, 111 Stat. 2253, which was set out as a note under former section 403–3 of Title 50, War and National Defense, and is now set out as a note under section 3024 of Title 50.

Codification
Section is comprised of section 202 of Pub. L. 107–173. Subsec. (a)(4)(B) of section 202 of Pub. L. 107–173 amended section 1379 of this title.


Change of Name
Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the intelligence community deemed to be a reference to the Director of National Intelligence. Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the Central Intelligence Agency deemed to be a reference to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. See section 1081(a), (b) of Pub. L. 108–458, set out as a note under section 3001 of Title 50, War and National Defense.


Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of this title.


