“SEC. 2. ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS FOR CERTAIN HAITIAN ORPHANS.“(a) In General.—The Secretary of Homeland Security may adjust the status of an alien to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence if the alien—“(1) was inspected and granted parole into the United States pursuant to the humanitarian parole policy for certain Haitian orphans announced by the Secretary of Homeland Security on January 18, 2010, and suspended as to new applications on April 15, 2010;

“(2) is physically present in the United States;

“(3) is admissible to the United States as an immigrant, except as provided in subsection (c); and

“(4) files an application for an adjustment of status under this section not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 9, 2010].


“(b) Numerical Limitation.—The number of aliens who are granted the status of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence under this section shall not exceed 1400.

“(c) Grounds of Inadmissibility.—Section 212(a)(7)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(7)(A)) shall not apply to an alien seeking an adjustment of status under this section.

“(d) Visa Availability.—The Secretary of State shall not be required to reduce the number of immigrant visas authorized to be issued under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) for any alien granted the status of having been lawfully admitted for permanent residence under this section.

“(e) Aliens Deemed To Meet Definition of Child.—An unmarried alien described in subsection (a) who is under the age of 18 years shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements applicable to adopted children under section 101(b)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(b)(1)) if—“(1) the alien obtained adjustment of status under this section; and

“(2) a citizen of the United States adopted the alien prior to, on, or after the date of the decision granting such adjustment of status.


“(f) No Immigration Benefits for Birth Parents.—No birth parent of an alien who obtains adjustment of status under this section shall thereafter, by virtue of such parentage, be accorded any right, privilege, or status under this section or the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).

