“SEC. 2. SUBSEQUENT PREPARATION AND CERTIFICATION OF PRINTED ENROLLMENTS.“(a) Preparation.—“(1) In general.—Upon the enactment of a bill following presentment of such bill to the President in the form of a hand enrollment pursuant to the authority of section 1 of this resolution, the Clerk of the House of Representatives shall prepare a printed enrollment of that bill as in the case of a bill to which sections 106 and 107 of title 1, United States Code, apply.

“(2) Limited stylistic corrections.—A printed enrollment prepared pursuant to paragraph (1) may, in order to conform to customary style for printed laws, include corrections in spelling, punctuation, indentation, type face, and type size and other necessary stylistic corrections to the hand enrollment. Such a printed enrollment shall include notations (in the margins or as otherwise appropriate) of all such corrections.


“(b) Transmittal to President.—A printed enrollment prepared pursuant to subsection (a) shall be signed by the presiding officer of each House of Congress as a correct printing of the hand enrollment and shall be transmitted to the President.

“(c) Certification by President; Legal Effect.—Upon certification by the President that a printed enrollment transmitted pursuant to subsection (b) is a correct printing of the hand enrollment, such printed enrollment shall be considered for all purposes as the original enrollment of the bill concerned and as valid evidence of the enactment of that bill.

“(d) Archives.—A printed enrollment certified by the President under subsection (c) shall be transmitted to the Archivist of the United States, who shall preserve it with the hand enrollment. In preparing the bill concerned for publication in slip form and in the United States Statutes at Large pursuant to section 112 of title 1, United States Code, the Archivist of the United States shall use the printed enrollment certified by the President under subsection (c) in lieu of the hand enrollment.

“(e) Hand Enrollment Defined.—As used in this section, the term ‘hand enrollment’ means the enrollment, as authorized by section 1, of a bill for presentment to the President in a form other than the printed form required by sections 106 and 107 of title 1, United States Code.”

