§ 9039. Availability of recourse loans for high moisture feed grains and seed cotton(a) High moisture feed grains(1) Definition of high moisture stateIn this subsection, the term “high moisture state” means corn or grain sorghum having a moisture content in excess of Commodity Credit Corporation standards for marketing assistance loans made by the Secretary under section 9031 of this title.


(2) Recourse loans availableFor each of the 2014 through 2018 crops of corn and grain sorghum, the Secretary shall make available recourse loans, as determined by the Secretary, to producers on a farm that—(A) normally harvest all or a portion of their crop of corn or grain sorghum in a high moisture state;

(B) present—(i) certified scale tickets from an inspected, certified commercial scale, including a licensed warehouse, feedlot, feed mill, distillery, or other similar entity approved by the Secretary, pursuant to regulations issued by the Secretary; or

(ii) field or other physical measurements of the standing or stored crop in regions of the United States, as determined by the Secretary, that do not have certified commercial scales from which certified scale tickets may be obtained within reasonable proximity of harvest operation;


(C) certify that the producers on the farm were the owners of the feed grain at the time of delivery to, and that the quantity to be placed under loan under this subsection was in fact harvested on the farm and delivered to, a feedlot, feed mill, or commercial or on-farm high-moisture storage facility, or to a facility maintained by the users of corn and grain sorghum in a high moisture state; and

(D) comply with deadlines established by the Secretary for harvesting the corn or grain sorghum and submit applications for loans under this subsection within deadlines established by the Secretary.


(3) Eligibility of acquired feed grainsA loan under this subsection shall be made on a quantity of corn or grain sorghum of the same crop acquired by the producer equivalent to a quantity determined by multiplying—(A) the acreage of the corn or grain sorghum in a high moisture state harvested on the farm of the producer; by

(B) the lower of—(i) the payment yield in effect for the calculation of price loss coverage under section 9015 of this title, or the payment yield deemed to be in effect or established under subclause (II) or (III) of section 9036(b)(1)(B)(ii) of this title, with respect to corn or grain sorghum on a field that is similar to the field from which the corn or grain sorghum referred to in subparagraph (A) was obtained; or

(ii) the actual yield of corn or grain sorghum on a field, as determined by the Secretary, that is similar to the field from which the corn or grain sorghum referred to in subparagraph (A) was obtained.




(b) Recourse loans available for seed cottonFor each of the 2014 through 2018 crops of upland cotton and extra long staple cotton, the Secretary shall make available recourse seed cotton loans, as determined by the Secretary, on any production.


(c) Repayment ratesRepayment of a recourse loan made under this section shall be at the loan rate established for the commodity by the Secretary, plus interest (determined in accordance with section 7283 of this title).


(Pub. L. 113–79, title I, § 1209, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 685.)
