§ 6597. Abolition of statutory positions in Office of Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of Senate; authority to establish and fix compensation for positions
Effective October 1, 1981, all statutory positions in the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate (other than the positions of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, Deputy Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, and Administrative Assistant) are abolished, and in lieu of the positions hereby abolished the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate is authorized to establish such number of positions as he deems appropriate and appoint and fix the compensation of employees to fill the positions so established; except that the annual rate of compensation payable to any employee appointed to fill any position established by the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate shall not, for any period of time, be in excess of $1,000 less than the annual rate of compensation of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate for that period of time; and except that nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any position authorized by statute, if the compensation for such position is to be paid from the contingent fund of the Senate.
(Pub. L. 97–51, § 116, Oct. 1, 1981, 95 Stat. 963.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 61f–7 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Transfer of Jurisdiction of Senate Chamber Public Address System From Architect of Capitol to Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of SenatePub. L. 102–90, title I, § 8, Aug. 14, 1991, 105 Stat. 451, provided that:
“(a) Effective October 1, 1991, the jurisdiction and control of the Senate chamber public address system is transferred from the Architect of the Capitol to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate. In the case of any employee of the Architect of the Capitol transferred during fiscal year 1992 to the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate as an audio operator—“(1) in the case of days of annual leave to the credit of any such employee as of the date such employee is transferred, the Architect of the Capitol is authorized to make payment to each such employee for that annual leave, and no such payment shall be considered a payment or compensation within the meaning of any law relating to dual compensation; and

“(2) for purposes of section 8339(m) of title 5, United States Code, the days of unused sick leave to the credit of any such employee as of the date such employee is transferred shall be included in the total service of such employee in connection with the computation of any annuity under subsections (a) through (e), (n), and (q) of such section.


“(b) The Architect of the Capitol shall provide the maintenance of the Senate chamber public address system until such system is replaced by a combined public address and audio broadcast system.”




Transfer of Jurisdiction of Elevators in Capitol Building Under Control of Senate From Architect of Capitol to Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of SenatePub. L. 102–90, title I, § 9, Aug. 14, 1991, 105 Stat. 452, provided that:
“(a) Subject to subsection (b), those employees of the Architect of the Capitol engaged in operating elevators in that part of the United States Capitol Building under the control and jurisdiction of the United States Senate, together with the elevator operating functions performed by such employees, effective October 1, 1991, shall be transferred to the jurisdiction of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate.

“(b) The Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate is authorized to enter into an agreement or other arrangement with the Architect of the Capitol regarding the supervision of such employees.”




Increases in CompensationIncreases in compensation for Senate officers and employees under authority of the Federal Pay Comparability Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91–656), see Salary Directives of President pro tempore of the Senate, set out as notes under section 4571 of this title.


