§ 7955. Producer agreement required as condition on provision of direct payments and counter-cyclical payments(a) Compliance with certain requirements(1) RequirementsBefore the producers on a farm may receive direct payments or counter-cyclical payments under this subchapter with respect to the farm, the producers shall agree, during the crop year for which the payments are made and in exchange for the payments—(A) to comply with applicable conservation requirements under subtitle B of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3811 et seq.);

(B) to comply with applicable wetland protection requirements under subtitle C of title XII of that Act (16 U.S.C. 3821 et seq.);

(C) to comply with the planting flexibility requirements of section 7956 of this title;

(D) to use the land on the farm, in a quantity equal to the attributable base acres for peanuts and any base acres for the farm under subchapter I, for an agricultural or conserving use, and not for a nonagricultural commercial or industrial use, as determined by the Secretary; and

(E) to effectively control noxious weeds and otherwise maintain the land in accordance with sound agricultural practices, as determined by the Secretary, if the agricultural or conserving use involves the noncultivation of any portion of the land referred to in subparagraph (D).


(2) ComplianceThe Secretary may issue such rules as the Secretary considers necessary to ensure producer compliance with the requirements of paragraph (1).


(3) ModificationAt the request of the transferee or owner, the Secretary may modify the requirements of this subsection if the modifications are consistent with the objectives of this subsection, as determined by the Secretary.



(b) Transfer or change of interest in farm(1) TerminationExcept as provided in paragraph (2), a transfer of (or change in) the interest of the producers on a farm in the base acres for peanuts for which direct payments or counter-cyclical payments are made shall result in the termination of the payments with respect to those acres, unless the transferee or owner of the acreage agrees to assume all obligations under subsection (a). The termination shall take effect on the date determined by the Secretary.


(2) ExceptionIf a producer entitled to a direct payment or counter-cyclical payment dies, becomes incompetent, or is otherwise unable to receive the payment, the Secretary shall make the payment, in accordance with rules issued by the Secretary.



(c) Acreage reportsAs a condition on the receipt of direct payments, counter-cyclical payments, marketing assistance loans, or loan deficiency payments under this subchapter, the Secretary shall require the producers on a farm to which a payment yield and base acres for peanuts are assigned under section 7952 of this title to submit to the Secretary annual acreage reports with respect to all cropland on the farm.


(d) Tenants and sharecroppersIn carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall provide adequate safeguards to protect the interests of tenants and sharecroppers.


(e) Sharing of paymentsThe Secretary shall provide for the sharing of direct payments and counter-cyclical payments among the producers on a farm on a fair and equitable basis.


(Pub. L. 107–171, title I, § 1305, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 173.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1), (c), and (d), was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle C (§§ 1301–1310) of Pub. L. 107–171, title I, May 13, 2002, 116 Stat. 166, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of subtitle C to the Code, see References in Text note set out under section 7951 of this title and Tables.
The Food Security Act of 1985, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(A), (B), is Pub. L. 99–198, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1354, as amended. Subtitles B and C of title XII of the Act are classified generally to subchapters II (§ 3811 et seq.) and III (§ 3821 et seq.), respectively, of chapter 58 of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1985 Amendment note set out under section 1281 of this title and Tables.


