“Sec. 501. (a)(1) The President shall exercise authorities with respect to Cuban and Haitian entrants which are identical to the authorities which are exercised under chapter 2 of title IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1521 et seq.]. The authorizations provided in section 414 of that Act [8 U.S.C. 1524] shall be available to carry out this section without regard to the dollar limitation contained in section 414(a)(2).

“(2) Any reference in chapter III of title I of the Supplemental Appropriations and Rescission Act, 1980 [Pub. L. 96–304, July 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 857, 865], to section 405(c)(2) of the International Security and Development Assistance Act of 1980 or to the International Security Act of 1980 shall be construed to be a reference to paragraph (1) of this subsection.


“(b) In addition, the President may, by regulation, provide that benefits granted under any law of the United States (other than the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.]) with respect to individuals admitted to the United States under section 207(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1157(c)] shall be granted in the same manner and to the same extent with respect to Cuban and Haitian entrants.

“(c)(1)(A) Any Federal agency may, under the direction of the President, provide assistance (in the form of materials, supplies, equipment, work, services, facilities, or otherwise) for the processing, care, maintenance, security, transportation, and initial reception and placement in the United States of Cuban and Haitian entrants. Such assistance shall be provided on such terms and conditions as the President may determine.

“(B) Funds available to carry out this subsection shall be used to reimburse State and local governments for expenses which they incur for the purposes described in subparagraph (A). Such funds may be used to reimburse Federal agencies for assistance which they provide under subparagraph (A).


“(2) The President may direct the head of any Federal agency to detail personnel of that agency, on either a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, for temporary duty with any Federal agency directed to provide supervision and management for purposes of this subsection.

“(3) The furnishing of assistance or other exercise of functions under this subsection shall not be considered a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.].

“(4) Funds to carry out this subsection may be available until expended.

“(5) [Repealed. Pub. L. 96–424, Oct. 10, 1980, 94 Stat. 1820.]


“(d) The authorities provided in this section are applicable to assistance and services provided with respect to Cuban or Haitian entrants at any time after their arrival in the United States, including periods prior to the enactment of this section.

“(e) As used in this section, the term ‘Cuban and Haitian entrant’ means—“(1) any individual granted parole status as a Cuban/Haitian Entrant (Status Pending) or granted any other special status subsequently established under the immigration laws for nationals of Cuba or Haiti, regardless of the status of the individual at the time assistance or services are provided; and

“(2) any other national of Cuba or Haiti—“(A) who—“(i) was paroled into the United States and has not acquired any other status under the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.];

“(ii) is the subject of removal proceedings under the Immigration and Nationality Act; or

“(iii) has an application for asylum pending with the Immigration and Naturalization Service; and


“(B) with respect to whom a final, nonappealable, and legally enforceable order of removal has not been entered.”



