“SEC. 3. TRANSITION PROVISIONS.“(a) Transfer and Allocations of Property and Appropriations.—“(1) In general.—Effective on the transfer date of any Library of Congress Police employee and Library of Congress Police civilian employee who is transferred under this Act [see Short Title of 2008 Amendment note set out above]—“(A) the assets, liabilities, contracts, property, and records associated with the employee shall be transferred to the Capitol Police; and

“(B) the unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection with the employee shall be transferred to and made available under the appropriations accounts for the Capitol Police for ‘Salaries’ and ‘General Expenses’, as applicable.


“(2) Joint review.—During the transition period, the Chief of the Capitol Police and the Librarian of Congress shall conduct a joint review of the assets, liabilities, contracts, property records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection with the transfer under this Act.


“(b) Treatment of Alleged Violations of Certain Employment Laws With Respect to Transferred Individuals.—“(1) In general.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law and except as provided in paragraph (3), in the case of an alleged violation of any covered law (as defined in paragraph (4)) which is alleged to have occurred prior to the transfer date with respect to an individual who is transferred under this Act, and for which the individual has not exhausted all of the remedies available for the consideration of the alleged violation which are provided for employees of the Library of Congress under the covered law prior to the transfer date, the following shall apply:“(A) The individual may not initiate any procedure which is available for the consideration of the alleged violation of the covered law which is provided for employees of the Library of Congress under the covered law.

“(B) To the extent that the individual has initiated any such procedure prior to the transfer date, the procedure shall terminate and have no legal effect.

“(C) Subject to paragraph (2), the individual may initiate and participate in any procedure which is available for the resolution of grievances of officers and employees of the Capitol Police under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.) to provide for consideration of the alleged violation. The previous sentence does not apply in the case of an alleged violation for which the individual exhausted all of the available remedies which are provided for employees of the Library of Congress under the covered law prior to the transfer date.


“(2) Special rules for applying congressional accountability act of 1995.—In applying paragraph (1)(C) with respect to an individual to whom this subsection applies, for purposes of the consideration of the alleged violation under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995—“(A) the date of the alleged violation shall be the individual’s transfer date;

“(B) notwithstanding the third sentence of section 402(a) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 1402(a)), the individual’s request for counseling under such section shall be made not later than 60 days after the date of the alleged violation; and

“(C) the employing office of the individual at the time of the alleged violation shall be the Capitol Police Board.


“(3) Exception for alleged violations subject to hearing prior to transfer.—Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to an alleged violation for which a hearing has commenced in accordance with the covered law on or before the transfer date.

“(4) Covered law defined.—In this subsection, a ‘covered law’ is any law for which the remedy for an alleged violation is provided for officers and employees of the Capitol Police under the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.).


“(c) Availability of Detailees During Transition Period.—During the transition period, the Chief of the Capitol Police may detail additional members of the Capitol Police to the Library of Congress, without reimbursement.

“(d) Effect on Existing Memorandum of Understanding.—The Memorandum of Understanding between the Library of Congress and the Capitol Police entered into on December 12, 2004, shall remain in effect during the transition period, subject to—“(1) the provisions of this Act; and

“(2) such modifications as may be made in accordance with the modification and dispute resolution provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding, consistent with the provisions of this Act.


“(e) Rule of Construction Relating to Personnel Authority of the Librarian of Congress.—Nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect the authority of the Librarian of Congress to—“(1) terminate the employment of a Library of Congress Police employee or Library of Congress Police civilian employee; or

“(2) transfer any individual serving in a Library of Congress Police employee position or Library of Congress Police civilian employee position to another position at the Library of Congress.


