§ 9054. Participation of dairy operations in margin protection program(a) EligibilityAll dairy operations in the United States shall be eligible to participate in the margin protection program to receive margin protection payments.


(b) Registration process(1) In generalThe Secretary shall specify the manner and form by which a participating dairy operation may register to participate in the margin protection program.


(2) Treatment of multiproducer dairy operationsIf a participating dairy operation is operated by more than 1 dairy producer, all of the dairy producers of the participating dairy operation shall be treated as a single dairy operation for purposes of participating in the margin protection program.


(3) Treatment of producers with multiple dairy operationsIf a dairy producer operates 2 or more dairy operations, each dairy operation of the producer shall separately register to participate in the margin protection program.



(c) Annual administrative fee(1) Administrative fee requiredEach participating dairy operation shall—(A) pay an administrative fee to register to participate in the margin protection program; and

(B) pay the administrative fee annually through the duration of the margin protection program specified in section 9059 of this title.


(2) Amount of feeThe administrative fee for a participating dairy operation shall be $100.


(3) Use of feesThe Secretary shall use administrative fees collected under this subsection to cover administrative costs incurred to carry out the margin protection program.



(d) Relation to livestock gross margin for dairy programA dairy operation may participate in the margin protection program or the livestock gross margin for dairy program under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.), but not both.


(Pub. L. 113–79, title I, § 1404, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 690.)


References in TextThe Federal Crop Insurance Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is subtitle A of title V of act Feb. 16, 1938, ch. 30, 52 Stat. 72, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 1501 et seq.) of chapter 36 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1501 of this title and Tables.


