§ 188. Conduct of research, development, demonstration, testing and evaluation(a) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology, shall carry out the responsibilities under section 182(4) of this title through both extramural and intramural programs.


(b) Extramural programs(1) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology, shall operate extramural research, development, demonstration, testing, and evaluation programs so as to—(A) ensure that colleges, universities, private research institutes, and companies (and consortia thereof) from as many areas of the United States as practicable participate;

(B) ensure that the research funded is of high quality, as determined through merit review processes developed under section 182(14) of this title; and

(C) distribute funds through grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts.


(2) University-based centers for homeland security(A) DesignationThe Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology, shall designate a university-based center or several university-based centers for homeland security. The purpose of the center or these centers shall be to establish a coordinated, university-based system to enhance the Nation’s homeland security.


(B) Criteria for designationCriteria for the designation of colleges or universities as a center for homeland security, shall include, but are not limited to, demonstrated expertise in—(i) The training of first responders.

(ii) Responding to incidents involving weapons of mass destruction and biological warfare.

(iii) Emergency and diagnostic medical services.

(iv) Chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear countermeasures or detection.

(v) Animal and plant health and diagnostics.

(vi) Food safety.

(vii) Water and wastewater operations.

(viii) Port and waterway security.

(ix) Multi-modal transportation.

(x) Information security and information engineering.

(xi) Engineering.

(xii) Educational outreach and technical assistance.

(xiii) Border transportation and security.

(xiv) The public policy implications and public dissemination of homeland security related research and development.


(C) Discretion of SecretaryTo the extent that exercising such discretion is in the interest of homeland security, and with respect to the designation of any given university-based center for homeland security, the Secretary may except certain criteria as specified in subparagraph (B) and consider additional criteria beyond those specified in subparagraph (B). Upon designation of a university-based center for homeland security, the Secretary shall that day publish in the Federal Register the criteria that were excepted or added in the selection process and the justification for the set of criteria that were used for that designation.


(D) Report to CongressThe Secretary shall report annually, from the date of enactment, to Congress concerning the implementation of this section. That report shall indicate which center or centers have been designated and how the designation or designations enhance homeland security, as well as report any decisions to revoke or modify such designations.


(E) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this paragraph.




(c) Intramural programs(1) ConsultationIn carrying out the duties under section 182 of this title, the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology, may draw upon the expertise of any laboratory of the Federal Government, whether operated by a contractor or the Government.


(2) LaboratoriesThe Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology, may establish a headquarters laboratory for the Department at any laboratory or site and may establish additional laboratory units at other laboratories or sites.


(3) Criteria for headquarters laboratoryIf the Secretary chooses to establish a headquarters laboratory pursuant to paragraph (2), then the Secretary shall do the following:(A) Establish criteria for the selection of the headquarters laboratory in consultation with the National Academy of Sciences, appropriate Federal agencies, and other experts.

(B) Publish the criteria in the Federal Register.

(C) Evaluate all appropriate laboratories or sites against the criteria.

(D) Select a laboratory or site on the basis of the criteria.

(E) Report to the appropriate congressional committees on which laboratory was selected, how the selected laboratory meets the published criteria, and what duties the headquarters laboratory shall perform.


(4) Limitation on operation of laboratoriesNo laboratory shall begin operating as the headquarters laboratory of the Department until at least 30 days after the transmittal of the report required by paragraph (3)(E).



(Pub. L. 107–296, title III, § 308, Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2170; Pub. L. 108–7, div. L, § 101(1), Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 526.)


References in TextThe date of enactment, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(D), probably means the date of enactment of this section by Pub. L. 107–296, which was approved Nov. 25, 2002.

Amendments2003—Subsecs. (a) to (c)(1). Pub. L. 108–7 added subsecs. (a) to (c)(1) and struck out former subsecs. (a) to (c)(1) which related to the responsibilities of the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology, to carry out the responsibilities under section 182(4) of this title through both extramural and intramural programs, to operate extramural research, development, demonstration, testing, and evaluation programs, to establish a coordinated, university-based system to enhance the Nation’s homeland security, and to draw upon the expertise of any laboratory of the Federal Government.


