§ 1736p. Trade policy declaration
It is hereby declared to be the agricultural trade policy of the United States to—(1) be the premier supplier of agricultural and food products to world markets and expand exports of high value products;

(2) support the principle of free trade and the promotion of fair trade in agricultural commodities and products;

(3) cooperate fully in all efforts to negotiate with foreign countries further reductions in tariff and nontariff barriers to trade, including sanitary and phytosanitary measures and trade-distorting subsidies;

(4) aggressively counter unfair foreign trade practices as a means of encouraging fairer trade;

(5) remove foreign policy constraints to maximize United States economic interests through agricultural trade; and

(6) provide for consideration of United States agricultural trade interests in the design of national fiscal and monetary policy that may foster continued strength in the value of the dollar.

(Pub. L. 99–198, title XI, § 1121, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1480; Pub. L. 104–127, title II, § 267, Apr. 4, 1996, 110 Stat. 974.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Food Security Act of 1985, and not as part of the Food for Peace Act which comprises this chapter.

Amendments1996—Pub. L. 104–127 struck out subsec. (a) which stated congressional findings regarding United States agricultural export policy, struck out subsec. designation “(b)”, and substituted pars. (1) to (4) for former pars. (1) to (4) which read as follows:
“(1) provide through all means possible agricultural commodities and their products for export at competitive prices, with full assurance of quality and reliability of supply;
“(2) support the principle of free trade and the promotion of fairer trade in agricultural commodities and their products;
“(3) cooperate fully in all efforts to negotiate with foreign countries reductions in current barriers to fair trade;
“(4) counter aggressively unfair foreign trade practices using all available means, including export restitution, export bonus programs, and, if necessary, restrictions on United States imports of foreign agricultural commodities and their products, as a means to encourage fairer trade;”.


