§ 9. Establishment and purpose of advisory committees; publication in Federal Register; charter: filing, contents, copy(a) No advisory committee shall be established unless such establishment is—(1) specifically authorized by statute or by the President; or

(2) determined as a matter of formal record, by the head of the agency involved after consultation with the Administrator, with timely notice published in the Federal Register, to be in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties imposed on that agency by law.


(b) Unless otherwise specifically provided by statute or Presidential directive, advisory committees shall be utilized solely for advisory functions. Determinations of action to be taken and policy to be expressed with respect to matters upon which an advisory committee reports or makes recommendations shall be made solely by the President or an officer of the Federal Government.

(c) No advisory committee shall meet or take any action until an advisory committee charter has been filed with (1) the Administrator, in the case of Presidential advisory committees, or (2) with the head of the agency to whom any advisory committee reports and with the standing committees of the Senate and of the House of Representatives having legislative jurisdiction of such agency. Such charter shall contain the following information:(A) the committee’s official designation;

(B) the committee’s objectives and the scope of its activity;

(C) the period of time necessary for the committee to carry out its purposes;

(D) the agency or official to whom the committee reports;

(E) the agency responsible for providing the necessary support for the committee;

(F) a description of the duties for which the committee is responsible, and, if such duties are not solely advisory, a specification of the authority for such functions;

(G) the estimated annual operating costs in dollars and man-years for such committee;

(H) the estimated number and frequency of committee meetings;

(I) the committee’s termination date, if less than two years from the date of the committee’s establishment; and

(J) the date the charter is filed.


A copy of any such charter shall also be furnished to the Library of Congress.

(Pub. L. 92–463, § 9, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 773; 1977 Reorg. Plan No. 1, § 5F, eff. Nov. 20, 1977, 42 F.R. 56101, 91 Stat. 1634.)


Transfer of Functions
“Administrator”, meaning Administrator of General Services, substituted for “Director”, meaning Director of Office of Management and Budget, in subsecs. (a)(2) and (c) pursuant to Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1977, § 5F, 42 F.R. 56101, 91 Stat. 1634, set out in this Appendix, which transferred functions of Office of Management and Budget and Director thereof relating to Committee Management Secretariat to Administrator of General Services, effective Nov. 20, 1977, as provided by section 1 of Ex. Ord. No. 12024, Dec. 1, 1977, 42 F.R. 61445, set out under section 2 of this Act in this Appendix.


