“SEC. 2101. EMPLOYEES.“(a) Applicability.—This section shall apply in the case of any employee or former employee who should be (or should have been) FERS covered but, as a result of a retirement coverage error, is (or was) CSRS covered or CSRS-Offset covered instead.

“(b) Uncorrected Error.—“(1) Applicability.—This subsection applies if the retirement coverage error has not been corrected before the effective date of the regulations described under paragraph (3). As soon as practicable after discovery of the error, and subject to the right of an election under paragraph (2), if CSRS covered or CSRS-Offset covered, such individual shall be treated as CSRS-Offset covered, retroactive to the date of the retirement coverage error.

“(2) Coverage.—“(A) Election.—Upon written notice of a retirement coverage error, an individual may elect to be CSRS-Offset covered or FERS covered, effective as of the date of the retirement coverage error. Such election shall be made not later than 180 days after the date of receipt of such notice.

“(B) Nonelection.—If the individual does not make an election by the date provided under subparagraph (A), a CSRS-Offset covered individual shall remain CSRS-Offset covered and a CSRS covered individual shall be treated as CSRS-Offset covered.


“(3) Regulations.—The Office shall prescribe regulations to carry out this subsection.


“(c) Corrected Error.—“(1) Applicability.—This subsection applies if the retirement coverage error was corrected before the effective date of the regulations described under subsection (b).

“(2) Coverage.—“(A) Election.—“(i) CSRS-offset covered.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Sept. 19, 2000], the Office shall prescribe regulations authorizing individuals to elect, during the 18-month period immediately following the effective date of such regulations, to be CSRS-Offset covered, effective as of the date of the retirement coverage error.

“(ii) Thrift savings fund contributions.—If under this section an individual elects to be CSRS-Offset covered, all employee contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund made during the period of FERS coverage (and earnings on such contributions) may remain in the Thrift Savings Fund in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Executive Director, notwithstanding any limit under title 5, United States Code, that would otherwise be applicable.


“(B) Previous settlement payment.—An individual who previously received a payment ordered by a court or provided as a settlement of claim for losses resulting from a retirement coverage error shall not be entitled to make an election under this subsection unless that amount is waived in whole or in part under section 2208, and any amount not waived is repaid.

“(C) Ineligibility for election.—An individual who, subsequent to correction of the retirement coverage error, received a refund of retirement deductions under section 8424 of title 5, United States Code, or a distribution under section 8433(b), (c), or (h)(1)(A) of title 5, United States Code, may not make an election under this subsection.


“(3) Corrective action to remain in effect.—If an individual is ineligible to make an election or does not make an election under paragraph (2) before the end of any time limitation under this subsection, the corrective action taken before such time limitation shall remain in effect.


