§ 460ooo–4. Management of the Las Cienegas National Conservation Area(a) In generalThe Secretary shall manage the Conservation Area in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances its resources and values, including the resources and values specified in section 460ooo–3(a) of this title, pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and other applicable law, including this subchapter.


(b) UsesThe Secretary shall allow only such uses of the Conservation Area as the Secretary finds will further the purposes for which the Conservation Area is established as set forth in section 460ooo–3(a) of this title.


(c) GrazingThe Secretary of the Interior shall permit grazing subject to all applicable laws, regulations, and Executive orders consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.


(d) Motorized vehiclesExcept where needed for administrative purposes or to respond to an emergency, use of motorized vehicles on public lands in the Conservation Area shall be allowed only—(1) before the effective date of a management plan prepared pursuant to section 460ooo–5 of this title, on roads and trails designated for use of motorized vehicles in the management plan that applies on December 6, 2000; and

(2) after the effective date of a management plan prepared pursuant to section 460ooo–5 of this title, on roads and trails designated for use of motor vehicles in that management plan.


(e) Military airspacePrior to December 6, 2000, the Federal Aviation Administration approved restricted military airspace (Areas 2303A and 2303B) which covers portions of the Conservation Area. Designation of the Conservation Area shall not impact or impose any altitude, flight, or other airspace restrictions on current or future military operations or missions. Should the military require additional or modified airspace in the future, the Congress does not intend for the designation of the Conservation Area to impede the military from petitioning the Federal Aviation Administration to change or expand existing restricted military airspace.


(f) Access to State and private landsNothing in this subchapter shall affect valid existing rights-of-way within the Conservation Area. The Secretary shall provide reasonable access to nonfederally owned lands or interest in lands within the boundaries of the Conservation Area.


(g) HuntingHunting shall be allowed within the Conservation Area in accordance with applicable laws and regulations of the United States and the State of Arizona, except that the Secretary, after consultation with the Arizona State wildlife management agency, may issue regulations designating zones where and establishing periods when no hunting shall be permitted for reasons of public safety, administration, or public use and enjoyment.


(h) Preventative measuresNothing in this subchapter shall preclude such measures as the Secretary determines necessary to prevent devastating fire or infestation of insects or disease within the Conservation Area.


(i) No buffer zonesThe establishment of the Conservation Area shall not lead to the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around the Conservation Area. The fact that there may be activities or uses on lands outside the Conservation Area that would not be permitted in the Conservation Area shall not preclude such activities or uses on such lands up to the boundary of the Conservation Area consistent with other applicable laws.


(j) WithdrawalsSubject to valid existing rights all Federal lands within the Conservation Area and all lands and interest therein which are hereafter acquired by the United States are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws and from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and from operation of the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing laws and all amendments thereto.


(Pub. L. 106–538, § 5, Dec. 6, 2000, 114 Stat. 2565.)


References in TextThe Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 94–579, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2743, which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of Title 43 and Tables.


