§ 410nn–2. Acquisition of property(a) General authorityThe Secretary may acquire land and interests in land within the boundaries of the park by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.


(b) Transfers from other agenciesThe Secretary of Commerce may transfer the Liberty Ship SS Jeremiah O’Brien to the Secretary for inclusion in the historic fleet of the park. Any other Federal property located within the boundaries of the park which is under the administrative jurisdiction of another department or agency of the United States may, with the concurrence of the head of the administering department or agency, be transferred without consideration to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary for the purposes of the park.


(c) State and local landsLands, and interests in lands, within the boundaries of the park which are owned by the State of California or any political subdivision thereof, may be acquired only by donation. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary is authorized to enter into an agreement with the State of California or any political subdivision thereof under which the Secretary may improve and may use appropriated funds for the improvement of berthing facilities if the State or any political subdivision thereof makes available to the Secretary, in accordance with terms and conditions acceptable to the Secretary, lands and interests in land for the purpose of berthing the ships and providing visitor access to the historic ships.


(d) Property to carry out subchapter(1) Historic vessels and other property.—In furtherance of the administration of the park, the Secretary is authorized to acquire by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange such property as may be appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subchapter, including vessels, heavy marine equipment, and drydock facilities. The Secretary shall notify the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate in writing not less than 90 days before acquisition of any large historic vessel. Such notification shall indicate the estimated cost of preservation, restoration if appropriate, and maintenance of the vessel concerned.

(2) Acquisition Limitation.—The Secretary shall not acquire any historic vessel pursuant to this subsection until the Secretary has notified the Committees in writing that sufficient funds have been made available to preserve and maintain those vessels listed in section 410nn–1(e)(1) of this title.


(Pub. L. 100–348, § 4, June 27, 1988, 102 Stat. 656; Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(11), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4584.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 100–348, June 27, 1988, 102 Stat. 654, known as the San Francisco Maritime National Historical Park Act of 1988, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 410nn of this title and Tables.

Amendments1994—Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 103–437 substituted “Natural Resources” for “Interior and Insular Affairs” after “Committee on”.


