§ 2802. Definitions
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires—(1) The term “aquaculture” means the propagation and rearing of aquatic species in controlled or selected environments, including, but not limited to, ocean ranching (except private ocean ranching of Pacific salmon for profit in those States where such ranching is prohibited by law).

(2) The term “aquaculture facility” means any land, structure, or other appurtenance that is used for aquaculture and is located in any State. Such term includes, but is not limited to, any laboratory, hatchery, rearing pond, raceway, pen, incubator, or other equipment used in aquaculture.

(3) The term “aquatic species” means any species of finfish, mollusk, crustacean, or other aquatic invertebrate, amphibian, reptile, or aquatic plant.

(4) The term “coordinating group” means the interagency aquaculture coordinating group established by section 2805 of this title.

(5) The term “person” means any individual who is a citizen or national of the United States or of any State, any Indian tribe, any institution of higher education, and any corporation, partnership, association or other entity (including, but not limited to, any community development corporation, producer cooperative, or fishermen’s cooperative) organized or existing under the laws of any State.

(6) The term “Plan” means the National Aquaculture Development Plan required to be established under section 2803 of this title.

(7) The term “Secretaries” means the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of the Interior.

(8) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture.

(9) The term “State” means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands of the United States, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.

(Pub. L. 96–362, § 3, Sept. 26, 1980, 94 Stat. 1199; Pub. L. 99–198, title XVII, § 1733, Dec. 23, 1985, 99 Stat. 1641.)

Amendments1985—Pars. (8), (9). Pub. L. 99–198 added par. (8) and redesignated former par. (8) as (9).


Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding section 1681 of Title 48, Territories and Insular Possessions.


