§ 7801. Definitions
As used in this chapter, the following definitions apply:(1) Agency contractThe term “agency contract” means an oral or written agreement in which a student athlete authorizes a person to negotiate or solicit on behalf of the student athlete a professional sports contract or an endorsement contract.


(2) Athlete agentThe term “athlete agent” means an individual who enters into an agency contract with a student athlete, or directly or indirectly recruits or solicits a student athlete to enter into an agency contract, and does not include a spouse, parent, sibling, grandparent, or guardian of such student athlete, any legal counsel for purposes other than that of representative agency, or an individual acting solely on behalf of a professional sports team or professional sports organization.


(3) Athletic directorThe term “athletic director” means an individual responsible for administering the athletic program of an educational institution or, in the case that such program is administered separately, the athletic program for male students or the athletic program for female students, as appropriate.


(4) CommissionThe term “Commission” means the Federal Trade Commission.


(5) Endorsement contractThe term “endorsement contract” means an agreement under which a student athlete is employed or receives consideration for the use by the other party of that individual’s person, name, image, or likeness in the promotion of any product, service, or event.


(6) Intercollegiate sportThe term “intercollegiate sport” means a sport played at the collegiate level for which eligibility requirements for participation by a student athlete are established by a national association for the promotion or regulation of college athletics.


(7) Professional sports contractThe term “professional sports contract” means an agreement under which an individual is employed, or agrees to render services, as a player on a professional sports team, with a professional sports organization, or as a professional athlete.


(8) StateThe term “State” includes a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.


(9) Student athleteThe term “student athlete” means an individual who engages in, is eligible to engage in, or may be eligible in the future to engage in, any intercollegiate sport. An individual who is permanently ineligible to participate in a particular intercollegiate sport is not a student athlete for purposes of that sport.


(Pub. L. 108–304, § 2, Sept. 24, 2004, 118 Stat. 1125.)

Short TitlePub. L. 108–304, § 1, Sept. 24, 2004, 118 Stat. 1125, provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Sports Agent Responsibility and Trust Act’.”



