§ 460ooo–3. Establishment of the Las Cienegas National Conservation Area(a) In generalIn order to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations the unique and nationally important aquatic, wildlife, vegetative, archaeological, paleontological, scientific, cave, cultural, historical, recreational, educational, scenic, rangeland, and riparian resources and values of the public lands described in subsection (b) of this section while allowing livestock grazing and recreation to continue in appropriate areas, there is hereby established the Las Cienegas National Conservation Area in the State of Arizona.


(b) Areas includedThe Conservation Area shall consist of approximately 42,000 acres of public lands in the Arizona counties of Pima and Santa Cruz, as generally depicted on the map entitled “Sonoita Valley Acquisition Planning District and Las Cienegas National Conservation Area” and dated October 2, 2000.


(c) Maps and legal descriptionAs soon as practicable after December 6, 2000, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a map and legal description of the Conservation Area. In case of a conflict between the map referred to in subsection (b) of this section and the map and legal description submitted by the Secretary, the map referred to in subsection (b) of this section shall control. The map and legal description shall have the same force and effect as if included in this subchapter, except that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors in such map and legal description. Copies of the map and legal description shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, and in the appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management in Arizona.


(d) Forest landsAny lands included in the Coronado National Forest that are located within the boundaries of the Conservation Area shall be considered to be a part of the Conservation Area. The Secretary of Agriculture shall revise the boundaries of the Coronado National Forest to reflect the exclusion of such lands from the Coronado National Forest.


(Pub. L. 106–538, § 4, Dec. 6, 2000, 114 Stat. 2564.)
