“SEC. 6. COMMISSION PERSONNEL MATTERS.“(a) Compensation of Members.—A member of the Commission who is not otherwise an officer or employee of the Federal Government shall be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Commission. A member of the Commission who is otherwise an officer or employee of the United States shall serve without compensation in addition to that received for services as an officer or employee of the United States.

“(b) Travel Expenses.—A member of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from the home or regular place of business of the member in the performance of service for the Commission.

“(c) Staff.—“(1) In general.—The Chairperson of the Commission may, without regard to the civil service laws (including regulations), appoint and terminate an executive director and such other additional personnel as may be necessary to enable the Commission to perform its duties. The employment and termination of an executive director shall be subject to confirmation by a majority of the members of the Commission.

“(2) Compensation.—The executive director shall be compensated at a rate not to exceed the rate payable for a position at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code. The Chairperson may fix the compensation of other personnel without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to classification of positions and General Schedule pay rates, except that the rate of pay for such personnel may not exceed the rate payable for a position at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of that title.

“(3) Detail of government employees.—Any Federal Government employee, with the approval of the head of the appropriate Federal agency, may be detailed to the Commission without reimbursement, and the detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status, benefits, or privilege.


“(d) Procurement of Temporary and Intermittent Services.—The Chairperson of the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for a position at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of that title.

