§ 5703. Panel(a) RepresentationThe United States shall be represented on the Panel by six individuals, of whom—(1) one shall be an official of the United States Government with expertise in salmon conservation and management;

(2) one shall be an official of the State of Alaska with expertise in salmon conservation and management; and

(3) four shall be knowledgeable and experienced with regard to the salmon fisheries on the Yukon River.


(b) AppointmentsPanel members shall be appointed as follows:(1) The Panel member described in subsection (a)(1) of this section shall be appointed by the Secretary of State.

(2) The Panel member described in subsection (a)(2) of this section shall be appointed by the Governor of Alaska.

(3) The Panel members described in subsection (a)(3) of this section shall be appointed by the Secretary of State from a list of at least 3 individuals nominated for each position by the Governor of Alaska. The Governor of Alaska may consider suggestions for nominations provided by organizations with expertise in Yukon River salmon fisheries. The Governor of Alaska may make appropriate nominations to allow for, and the Secretary of State shall appoint, at least one member under subsection (a)(3) of this section who is qualified to represent the interests of Lower Yukon River fishing districts, and at least one member who is qualified to represent the interests of Upper Yukon River fishing districts. At least one of the Panel members under subsection (a)(3) of this section shall be an Alaska Native.


(c) AlternatesThe Secretary of State may designate an alternate Panel member for each Panel member the Secretary appoints under subsections 11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection”. (b)(1) and (3) of this section, who meets the same qualifications, to serve in the absence of the Panel member. The Governor of the State of Alaska may designate an alternative Panel member for the Panel member appointed under subsection (b)(2) of this section, who meets the same qualifications, to serve in the absence of that Panel member.


(d) Term lengthPanel members and alternate Panel members shall serve four-year terms. Any individual appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of any term shall be appointed for the remainder of that term.


(e) ReappointmentPanel members and alternate Panel members shall be eligible for reappointment.


(f) DecisionsDecisions by the United States section of the Panel shall be made by the consensus of the Panel members appointed under paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a) of this section.


(g) ConsultationIn carrying out their functions under the Agreement, Panel members may consult with such other interested parties as they consider appropriate.


(Pub. L. 104–43, title VII, § 704, Nov. 3, 1995, 109 Stat. 393.)
