§ 460ooo–2. Purposes of the Acquisition Planning District(a) In generalThe Secretary shall negotiate with land owners for the acquisition of lands and interest in lands suitable for Conservation Area expansion that meet the purposes described in section 460ooo–3(a) of this title. The Secretary shall only acquire property under this subchapter pursuant to section 460ooo–6 of this title.


(b) Federal landsThe Secretary, through the Bureau of Land Management, shall administer the public lands within the Acquisition Planning District pursuant to this subchapter and the applicable provisions of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), subject to valid existing rights, and in accordance with the management plan. Such public lands shall become part of the Conservation Area when they become contiguous with the Conservation Area.


(c) Fish and wildlifeNothing in this subchapter shall be construed as affecting the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State of Arizona with respect to fish and wildlife within the Acquisition Planning District.


(d) Protection of State and private lands and interestsNothing in this subchapter shall be construed as affecting any property rights or management authority with regard to any lands or interest in lands held by the State of Arizona, any political subdivision of the State of Arizona, or any private property rights within the boundaries of the Acquisition Planning District.


(e) Public landsNothing in this subchapter shall be construed as in any way diminishing the Secretary’s or the Bureau of Land Management’s authorities, rights, or responsibilities for managing the public lands within the Acquisition Planning District.


(f) Coordinated managementThe Secretary shall coordinate the management of the public lands within the Acquisition Planning District with that of surrounding county, State, and private lands consistent with the provisions of subsection (d) of this section.


(Pub. L. 106–538, § 3, Dec. 6, 2000, 114 Stat. 2564.)


References in TextThe Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in subsec. (b), is Pub. L. 94–579, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2743, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of Title 43 and Tables.


