§ 1172. Practice and procedure(a) Joint responsibility; designation by Secretary of State officers and employees as Federal law enforcement agents; non-Federal employees for civil service purposesEnforcement of the provisions of this chapter is the joint responsibility of the Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating. In addition, the Secretary may designate officers and employees of the States of the United States to enforce the provisions of this chapter which relate to persons or vessels subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. When so designated, such officers and employees are authorized to function as Federal law enforcement agents for these purposes; but they shall not be held and considered as employees of the United States for the purpose of any laws administered by the Office of Personnel Management.


(b) Issuance of warrants and other processThe judges of the United States district courts and United States magistrate judges may, within their respective jurisdictions, upon proper oath or affirmation showing probable cause, issue such warrants or other process, including warrants or other process issued in admiralty proceedings in Federal district courts, as may be required for enforcement of this chapter and any regulations issued thereunder.


(c) Execution of warrants or other process by enforcement agentsAny person authorized to carry out enforcement activities hereunder shall have the power to execute any warrant or process issued by any officer or court of competent jurisdiction for the enforcement of this chapter.


(d) Arrests and searches by enforcement agentsSuch person so authorized shall have the power—(1) with or without a warrant or other process, to arrest any person committing in his presence or view a violation of this chapter or the regulations issued thereunder;

(2) with a warrant or other process or without a warrant, if he has reasonable cause to believe that a vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States or any person onboard is in violation of any provision of this chapter or the regulations issued thereunder, to search such vessel and to arrest such person.


(e) Seizure of vessels and related articlesSuch person so authorized may seize any vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, together with its tackle, apparel, furniture, appurtenances, cargo, and stores, used or employed contrary to the provisions of this chapter or the regulations issued hereunder or which it reasonably appears has been used or employed contrary to the provisions of this chapter or the regulations issued hereunder.


(f) Seizure and disposition of fur sealsSuch person so authorized may seize, whenever and wherever lawfully found, all fur seals taken or retained in violation of this chapter or the regulations issued thereunder. Any fur seals so seized or forfeited to the United States pursuant to this chapter shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of section 1155 of this title.


(Pub. L. 89–702, title III, § 302, Nov. 2, 1966, 80 Stat. 1097; Pub. L. 98–129, § 2, Oct. 14, 1983, 97 Stat. 844; Pub. L. 101–650, title III, § 321, Dec. 1, 1990, 104 Stat. 5117.)

Amendments1983—Pub. L. 98–129 amended section generally, substituting provisions, which were contained in section 1182 of this title, relating to practice and procedure in connection with the enforcement of this chapter for provisions which had authorized the sale by the Secretary of sea otter skins that had been forfeited to or seized by the United States.


Change of Name
“United States magistrate judges” substituted for “United States magistrates” in subsec. (b) pursuant to section 321 of Pub. L. 101–650, set out as a note under section 631 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


