§ 410ff–3. Administration(a) Authority of Secretary of the Interior; low-intensity, limited-entry basis for administrationSubject to the provisions of section 410ff of this title, the Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with the provisions of sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, as amended and supplemented. In the administration of the park, the Secretary may utilize such statutory authority available for the conservation and management of wildlife and natural and cultural resources as he deems appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subchapter. The park shall be administered on a low-intensity, limited-entry basis.


(b) Limited visitor use; establishment of appropriate visitor carrying capacitiesIn recognition of the special fragility and sensitivity of the park’s resources, it is the intent of Congress that the visitor use within the park be limited to assure negligible adverse impact on the park resources. The Secretary shall establish appropriate visitor carrying capacities for the park.


(c) Comprehensive general management plan(1) Within three complete fiscal years from March 5, 1980, the Secretary, in consultation with The Nature Conservancy and the State of California, shall submit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate, a comprehensive general management plan for the park, pursuant to criteria stated in the provisions of section 1a–7(b) of this title. Such plan shall include alternative considerations for the design and operation of a public transportation system connecting the park with the mainland, with such considerations to be developed in cooperation with the State of California and the Secretary of Transportation. The Secretary shall seek the advice of the scientific community in the preparation of said plan, and conduct hearings for public comment in Ventura and Santa Barbara Counties.

(2) Those aspects of such a plan which relate to marine mammals shall be prepared by the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary and the State of California.


(Pub. L. 96–199, title II, § 204, Mar. 5, 1980, 94 Stat. 76.)


Change of Name
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.


