§ 410hhh–2. Great Sand Dunes National Park, Colorado(a) EstablishmentWhen the Secretary determines that sufficient land having a sufficient diversity of resources has been acquired to warrant designation of the land as a national park, the Secretary shall establish the Great Sand Dunes National Park in the State of Colorado, as generally depicted on the map, as a unit of the National Park System. Such establishment shall be effective upon publication of a notice of the Secretary’s determination in the Federal Register.


(b) Availability of mapThe map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.


(c) NotificationUntil the date on which the national park is established, the Secretary shall annually notify the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives of—(1) the estimate of the Secretary of the lands necessary to achieve a sufficient diversity of resources to warrant designation of the national park; and

(2) the progress of the Secretary in acquiring the necessary lands.


(d) Abolishment of National Monument(1) On the date of establishment of the national park pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the Great Sand Dunes National Monument shall be abolished, and any funds made available for the purposes of the national monument shall be available for the purposes of the national park.

(2) Any reference in any law (other than this subchapter), regulation, document, record, map, or other paper of the United States to “Great Sand Dunes National Monument” shall be considered a reference to “Great Sand Dunes National Park”.


(e) Transfer of jurisdictionAdministrative jurisdiction is transferred to the National Park Service over any land under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior that—(1) is depicted on the map as being within the boundaries of the national park or the preserve; and

(2) is not under the administrative jurisdiction of the National Park Service on November 22, 2000.


(Pub. L. 106–530, § 4, Nov. 22, 2000, 114 Stat. 2529.)


Change of Name
Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.

Designation of ParkOn Sept. 13, 2004, the Secretary of the Interior made the determination under subsec. (a) of this section and designated the existing Great Sand Dunes National Monument as the Great Sand Dunes National Park. See 69 F.R. 57355.


