§ 4602. Studies of effects of privatization of FNMA and FHLMC(a) In generalThe Comptroller General of the United States, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall each conduct and submit to the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on October 28, 1992, a study regarding the desirability and feasibility of repealing the Federal charters of the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, eliminating any Federal sponsorship of the enterprises, and allowing the enterprises to continue to operate as fully private entities.


(b) RequirementsEach study shall particularly examine the effects of such privatization on—(1) the requirements applicable to the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation under Federal law and the costs to the enterprises;

(2) the cost of capital to the enterprises;

(3) housing affordability and availability and the cost of homeownership;

(4) the level of secondary mortgage market competition subsequently available in the private sector;

(5) whether increased amounts of capital would be necessary for the enterprises to continue operation;

(6) the secondary market for residential loans and the liquidity of such loans; and

(7) any other factors that the Comptroller General, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Director of the Congressional Budget Office deems appropriate to enable the Congress to evaluate the desirability and feasibility of privatization of the enterprises.


(c) InformationThe Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation shall provide full and prompt access to the Comptroller General, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of the Congressional Budget Office to any books, records, and other information requested for the purposes of conducting the studies under this section.


(d) Views of FNMA and FHLMC(1) Consideration in studiesIn conducting the studies under this section, the Comptroller General, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall each consider the views of the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.


(2) Direct reportThe Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation may each report directly to the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate on its own analysis of the desirability and feasibility of repealing the Federal charters of the enterprises, eliminating any Federal sponsorship, and allowing the enterprises to continue to operate as fully private entities.



(Pub. L. 102–550, title XIII, § 1355, Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 3970.)


Change of Name
Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives by section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress. Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives abolished and replaced by Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred from Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.


