§ 469m. Women’s Rights National Historical Park(a) Omitted

(b) National Women’s Rights History Project National Registry(1) In generalThe Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) may make annual grants to State historic preservation offices for not more than 5 years to assist the State historic preservation offices in surveying, evaluating, and nominating to the National Register of Historic Places women’s rights history properties.


(2) EligibilityIn making grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to grants relating to properties associated with the multiple facets of the women’s rights movement, such as politics, economics, education, religion, and social and family rights.


(3) UpdatesThe Secretary shall ensure that the National Register travel itinerary website entitled “Places Where Women Made History” is updated to contain—(A) the results of the inventory conducted under paragraph (1); and

(B) any links to websites related to places on the inventory.


(4) Cost-sharing requirementThe Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out using any assistance made available under this subsection shall be 50 percent.


(5) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this subsection $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013.



(c) National Women’s Rights History Project Partnerships Network(1) GrantsThe Secretary may make matching grants and give technical assistance for development of a network of governmental and nongovernmental entities (referred to in this subsection as the “network”), the purpose of which is to provide interpretive and educational program development of national women’s rights history, including historic preservation.


(2) Management of network(A) In generalThe Secretary shall, through a competitive process, designate a nongovernmental managing network to manage the network.


(B) CoordinationThe nongovernmental managing entity designated under subparagraph (A) shall work in partnership with the Director of the National Park Service and State historic preservation offices to coordinate operation of the network.



(3) Cost-sharing requirement(A) In generalThe Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out using any assistance made available under this subsection shall be 50 percent.


(B) State historic preservation officesMatching grants for historic preservation specific to the network may be made available through State historic preservation offices.



(4) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this subsection $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013.



(Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, § 7111, Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1199.)

Codification
Section is comprised of section 7111 of Pub. L. 111–11. Subsec. (a) of section 7111 of Pub. L. 111–11 enacted section 410ll–1 of this title.


