§ 460tt. Cross Florida Barge Canal(a) DeauthorizationThe barge canal project located between the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “project”), as described in the Act of July 23, 1942 (56 Stat. 703), shall be deauthorized by operation of law immediately upon the Governor and Cabinet of the State of Florida adopting a resolution specifically agreeing on behalf of the State of Florida (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “State”) to all of the terms of the agreement prescribed in subsection (b) of this section.


(b) Transfer of project landsNotwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary is, subject to the provisions of subsections (d) and (e) of this section, directed to transfer to the State all lands and interests in lands acquired by the Secretary and facilities completed for the project in subsection (a) of this section, without consideration, if the State agrees to each of the following:(1) The State shall agree to hold the United States harmless from all claims arising from or through the operations of the lands and facilities conveyed by the United States.

(2) The State shall agree to preserve and maintain a greenway corridor which shall be open to the public for compatible recreation and conservation activities and which shall be continuous, except for areas referred to in subparagraphs (A) and (C) of this paragraph, along the project route over lands acquired by the Secretary or by the State or State Canal Authority, or lands acquired along the project route in the future by the State or State Canal Authority, to the maximum width possible, as determined in the management plan to be developed by the State for former project lands. Such greenway corridor shall not be less than 300 yards wide, except for the following areas:(A) Any area of the project corridor where, as of November 28, 1990, no land is owned by the State or State Canal Authority.

(B) Any area of the project corridor where, as of November 28, 1990, the land owned by the State or State Canal Authority is less than 300 yards wide.

(C) Any area of the project corridor where a road or bridge crosses the project corridor.


(3) Consistent with paragraph (2) of this subsection, the State shall create a State park or conservation/recreation area in the lands and interests in lands acquired for the project lying between the Atlantic Ocean and the western boundaries of sections 20 and 29, township 15 south, range 23 east.

(4) The State shall agree, consistent with paragraphs (2), (5) and (6) of this subsection, to preserve, enhance, interpret, and manage the water and related land resources of the area containing cultural, fish and wildlife, scenic, and recreational values in the remaining lands and interests in land acquired for the project, lying west of sections 20 and 29, township 15 south, range 23 east, as determined by the State, for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations of people and the development of outdoor recreation.

(5) The State shall agree to pay, from the assets of the State Canal Authority and the Cross Florida Canal Navigation District, including revenues from the sale of former project lands declared surplus by the State management plan, to the counties of Citrus, Clay, Duval, Levy, Marion, and Putnam a minimum aggregate sum of $32,000,000 in cash or, at the option of the counties, payment to be made by conveyance of surplus former project lands selected by the State at current appraised values.

(6) The State shall agree to provide that, after repayment of all sums due to the counties of Citrus, Clay, Duval, Levy, Marion, and Putnam, the State may use any remaining funds generated from the sale of former project lands declared surplus by the State to acquire the fee title to lands along the project route as to which less than fee title was obtained, or to purchase privately owned lands, or easements over such privately owned lands, lying within the proposed project route, consistent with paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of this subsection, according to such priorities as are determined in the management plan to be developed by the State for former project lands. Any remaining funds generated from the sale of former project lands declared surplus by the State shall be used for the improvement and management of the greenway corridor consistent with paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of this subsection.


(c) Enforcement(1) Remedies and jurisdictionThe United States is directed to vigorously enforce the agreement referred to in subsections (a) and (b) of this section in the courts of the United States and shall be entitled to any remedies in equity or law, including, without limitation, injunctive relief. The court, in issuing any final order in any suit brought pursuant to this subsection, may, in its discretion, award costs of litigation (including reasonable attorney and expert witness fees) to any prevailing party. The United States district courts shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction of any action under this subsection.


(2) State remediesThe State shall be entitled to the same remedies listed in paragraph (1) of this subsection in the courts of the State or of the United States.



(d) Time of transferActual transfer of lands and management responsibilities under this section shall not occur on the constructed portions of the project lying between the Atlantic Ocean and the Eureka Lock and Dam, inclusive, and between the Gulf of Mexico and the Inglis Lock and Dam, inclusive, until the last day of the 24-month period beginning on November 28, 1990.


(e) Management pending transferIn the 24-month period following November 28, 1990, the Secretary shall carry out any and all programmed maintenance on the portions of the project outlined in subsection (d) of this section.


(f) Contract for continued O&amp;M(1) In generalDuring the period beginning on November 28, 1992, and ending on September 30, 1993, the Secretary is authorized and directed to offer to enter into a contract with the St. Johns River Water Management District and the Southwest Florida Water Management District of the State of Florida for the continued operation and maintenance by the Secretary of the portions of the project described in subsection (d) of this section. The maintenance shall be performed at a level of service that is necessary to ensure safe operating conditions and to prevent deterioration of the structures. No major rehabilitations or renovations shall be performed by the Secretary in such portions of the project during such period.


(2) FundingFunding for the continued operation and maintenance of the barge canal project by the Secretary under this subsection shall not exceed $300,000. The State of Florida shall pay a non-Federal share of $600,000 to fund the continued maintenance of the portions of the project described in subsection (d) of this section in accordance with paragraph (1).



(g) SurveyThe exact acreage and legal description of the real property to be transferred pursuant to this section shall be determined by a survey which is satisfactory to the Secretary and to the State. The cost of such survey shall be borne by the State.


(Pub. L. 99–662, title XI, § 1114, Nov. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 4232; Pub. L. 101–640, title IV, § 402, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4644; Pub. L. 102–580, title I, § 102(e), Oct. 31, 1992, 106 Stat. 4805.)


References in TextAct of July 23, 1942, referred to in subsec. (a), is act July 23, 1942, ch. 520, 56 Stat. 703, as amended. See National Defense Pipe Lines note set out preceding section 715 of Title 15, Commerce and Trade.

Amendments1992—Subsecs. (f), (g). Pub. L. 102–580 added subsec. (f) and redesignated former subsec. (f) as (g).
1990—Pub. L. 101–640 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section consisted of subsecs. (a) to (i) which established the Cross Florida National Conservation Area, designated to it lands held for high-level barge canal project, required that certain portions of the barge canal project be operated and maintained for navigation, recreation, and fish and wildlife enhancement and for economic benefit of the region, provided for State of Florida to retain jurisdiction and responsibility over water resources planning, development, and control of surface and ground waters, required the Secretary to develop comprehensive management plan, directed operation of Rodman Dam to assure continuation of Lake Ocklawaha reservoir, required acquisition of lands held by Florida Canal Authority for barge canal project and lands held by State of Florida or Canal Authority which were acquired pursuant to section 104 of the River and Harbor Act of 1960, and set forth conditions for effectiveness of certain provisions.


