§ 4013. Implementing actions in anticipation of entry into force and initial regulations(a) Implementing actions(1) Proclamation authorityAfter August 2, 2005—(A) the President may proclaim such actions, and

(B) other appropriate officers of the United States Government may issue such regulations,


as may be necessary to ensure that any provision of this chapter, or amendment made by this chapter, that takes effect on the date the Agreement enters into force is appropriately implemented on such date, but no such proclamation or regulation may have an effective date earlier than the date the Agreement enters into force.

(2) Effective date of certain proclaimed actionsAny action proclaimed by the President under the authority of this chapter that is not subject to the consultation and layover provisions under section 4014 of this title may not take effect before the 15th day after the date on which the text of the proclamation is published in the Federal Register.


(3) Waiver of 15-day restrictionThe 15-day restriction contained in paragraph (2) on the taking effect of proclaimed actions is waived to the extent that the application of such restriction would prevent the taking effect on the date the Agreement enters into force of any action proclaimed under this section.



(b) Initial regulationsInitial regulations necessary or appropriate to carry out the actions required by or authorized under this chapter or proposed in the statement of administrative action submitted under section 4011(a)(2) of this title to implement the Agreement shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be issued within 1 year after the date on which the Agreement enters into force. In the case of any implementing action that takes effect on a date after the date on which the Agreement enters into force, initial regulations to carry out that action shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be issued within 1 year after such effective date.


(Pub. L. 109–53, title I, § 103, Aug. 2, 2005, 119 Stat. 465.)

Termination of SectionFor termination of section by section 107(d) of Pub. L. 109–53, see Effective and Termination Dates note below.


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1), (2) and (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 109–53, Aug. 2, 2005, 119 Stat. 462, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4001 of this title and Tables.

Effective and Termination DatesSection effective on the date the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement enters into force (Mar. 1, 2006) and to cease to have effect on the date the Agreement ceases to be in force with respect to the United States, and, during any period in which a country ceases to be a CAFTA–DR country, to cease to have effect with respect to such country, see section 107 of Pub. L. 109–53, set out as a note under section 4001 of this title.


