“SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.“In this title:“(1) Child.—The term ‘child’ means an individual who—“(A) is not attending school and is not more than 18 years of age; or

“(B) is attending school and is not more than 19 years of age.


“(2) Covered family.—The term ‘covered family’ means a family that—“(A) includes a child; and

“(B) has a head of household who is—“(i) a grandparent of the child who is raising the child; or

“(ii) a relative of the child who is raising the child.



“(3) Elderly person.—The term ‘elderly person’ has the same meaning as in section 202(k) of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q(k)).

“(4) Grandparent.—“(A) In general.—The term ‘grandparent’ means, with respect to a child, an individual who is a grandparent or stepgrandparent of the child by blood or marriage, regardless of the age of such individual.

“(B) Case of adoption.—In the case of a child who was adopted, the term includes an individual who, by blood or marriage, is a grandparent or stepgrandparent of the child as adopted.


“(5) Intergenerational dwelling unit.—The term ‘intergenerational dwelling unit’ means a qualified dwelling unit that is reserved for occupancy only by an intergenerational family.

“(6) Intergenerational family.—The term ‘intergenerational family’ means a covered family that has a head of household who is an elderly person.

“(7) Private nonprofit organization.—The term ‘private nonprofit organization’ has the same meaning as in section 202(k) of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q(k)).

“(8) Qualified dwelling unit.—The term ‘qualified dwelling unit’ means a dwelling unit that—“(A) has not fewer than 2 separate bedrooms;

“(B) is equipped with design features appropriate to meet the special physical needs of elderly persons, as needed; and

“(C) is equipped with design features appropriate to meet the special physical needs of young children, as needed.


“(9) Raising a child.—The term ‘raising a child’ means, with respect to an individual, that the individual—“(A) resides with the child; and

“(B) is the primary caregiver for the child—“(i) because the biological or adoptive parents of the child do not reside with the child or are unable or unwilling to serve as the primary caregiver for the child; and

“(ii) regardless of whether the individual has a legal relationship to the child (such as guardianship or legal custody) or is caring for the child informally and has no such legal relationship with the child.



“(10) Relative.—“(A) In general.—The term ‘relative’ means, with respect to a child, an individual who—“(i) is not a parent of the child by blood or marriage; and

“(ii) is a relative of the child by blood or marriage, regardless of the age of the individual.


“(B) Case of adoption.—In the case of a child who was adopted, the term ‘relative’ includes an individual who, by blood or marriage, is a relative of the family who adopted the child.


“(11) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.

