“SEC. 103. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.“(a) Findings.—The Congress makes the following findings:“(1) Red Rock Canyon is a natural resource of major significance to the people of Nevada and the United States. It must be protected in its natural state for the enjoyment of future generations of Nevadans and Americans, and enhanced wherever possible.

“(2) In 1998, the Congress enacted the Southern Nevada Public Lands [Land] Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105–263) [see Short Title of 1998 Amendment note set out under section 6901 of Title 31, Money and Finance], which provided among other things for the protection and enhancement of Red Rock Canyon.

“(3) The Corporation owns much of the private land on Red Rock Canyon’s eastern boundary, and is engaged in developing a large-scale master-planned community.

“(4) Included in the Corporation’s land holdings are 1,071 acres of high-ground lands at the eastern edge of Red Rock Canyon. These lands were intended to be included in Red Rock, but to date have not been acquired by the United States. The protection of this high-ground acreage would preserve an important element of the western Las Vegas Valley viewshed.

“(5) The Corporation has volunteered to forgo development of the high-ground lands, and proposes that the United States acquire title to the lands so that they can be preserved in perpetuity to protect and expand Red Rock Canyon.


“(b) Purposes.—The purposes of this title are:“(1) To accomplish an exchange of lands between the United States and the Corporation that would transfer certain high-ground lands to the United States in exchange for the transfer of other lands of approximately equal value to the Corporation.

“(2) To protect Red Rock Canyon and to expand its boundaries as contemplated by the Bureau of Land Management, as depicted on the Red Rock Canyon Map.

“(3) To further fulfill the purposes of the Southern Nevada Public Lands [Land] Management Act of 1998 and the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area Establishment Act of 1990.


