§ 3193. Receiving agent’s authority over offenders
A duly appointed agent to receive, in behalf of the United States, the delivery, by a foreign government, of any person accused of crime committed within the United States, and to convey him to the place of his trial, shall have all the powers of a marshal of the United States, in the several districts through which it may be necessary for him to pass with such prisoner, so far as such power is requisite for the prisoner’s safe-keeping.
(June 25, 1948, ch. 645, 62 Stat. 825.)

Historical and Revision NotesBased on title 18, U.S.C., 1940 ed., § 660 (R.S. § 5276).
Words “jurisdiction of the” were omitted in view of the definition of United States in section 5 of this title.
Minor changes only were made in phraseology.


Ex. Ord. No. 11517. Issuance and Signature by Secretary of State of Warrants Appointing Agents To Return Fugitives From Justice Extradited to United States
Ex. Ord. No. 11517, Mar. 19, 1970, 35 F.R. 4937, provided:
WHEREAS the President of the United States, under section 3192 of Title 18, United States Code, has been granted the power to take all necessary measures for the transportation, safekeeping and security against lawless violence of any person delivered by any foreign government to an agent of the United States for return to the United States for trial for any offense of which he is duly accused; and
WHEREAS fugitives from justice in the United States whose extradition from abroad has been requested by the Government of the United States and granted by a foreign government are to be returned in the custody of duly appointed agents in accordance with the provisions of section 3193 of Title 18, United States Code; and
WHEREAS such duly appointed agents under the provisions of the law mentioned above, being authorized to receive delivery of the fugitive in behalf of the United States and to convey him to the place of his trial, are given the powers of a marshal of the United States in the several districts of the United States through which it may be necessary for them to pass with such prisoner, so far as such power is requisite for the prisoner’s safekeeping; and
WHEREAS such warrants serve as a certification to the foreign government delivering the fugitives to any other foreign country through which such agents may pass, and to authorities in the United States of the powers therein conferred upon the agents; and
WHEREAS it is desirable by delegation of functions heretofore performed by the President to simplify and thereby expedite the issuance of such warrants to agents in the interests of the prompt return of fugitives to the United States:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 301 of Title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. The Secretary of State is hereby designated and empowered to issue and sign all warrants appointing agents to receive, in behalf of the United States, the delivery in extradition by a foreign government of any person accused of a crime committed within the United States, and to convey such person to the place of his trial.
Sec. 2. Agents appointed in accordance with section 1 of this order shall have all the powers conferred in respect of such agents by applicable treaties of the United States and by section 3193 of Title 18, United States Code, or by any other provisions of United States law.
Sec. 3. Executive Order No. 10347, April 18, 1952, as amended by Executive Order No. 11354, May 23, 1967, is further amended by deleting numbered paragraph 4 and renumbering paragraphs 5 and 6 as paragraphs 4 and 5, respectively.

Richard Nixon.



