“SEC. 3. GATEWAY VISITOR CENTER AUTHORIZATION.“(a) Agreement.—The Secretary of the Interior, in administering the Independence National Historical Park, may enter into an agreement under appropriate terms and conditions with the Gateway Visitor Center Corporation (a nonprofit corporation established under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania) to facilitate the construction and operation of a regional Gateway Visitor Center on Independence Mall.

“(b) Operations of Center.—The Agreement shall authorize the Corporation to operate the Center in cooperation with the Secretary and to provide at the Center information, interpretation, facilities, and services to visitors to Independence National Historical Park, its surrounding historic sites, the City of Philadelphia, and the region, in order to assist in their enjoyment of the historic, cultural, educational, and recreational resources of the greater Philadelphia area.

“(c) Management-Related Activities.—The Agreement shall authorize the Secretary to undertake at the Center activities related to the management of Independence National Historical Park, including, but not limited to, provision of appropriate visitor information and interpretive facilities and programs related to Independence National Historical Park.

“(d) Activities of Corporation.—The Agreement shall authorize the Corporation, acting as a private nonprofit organization, to engage in activities appropriate for operation of a regional visitor center that may include, but are not limited to, charging fees, conducting events, and selling merchandise, tickets, and food to visitors to the Center.

“(e) Use of Revenues.—Revenues from activities engaged in by the Corporation shall be used for the operation and administration of the Center.

“(f) Protection of Park.—Nothing in this section authorizes the Secretary or the Corporation to take any actions in derogation of the preservation and protection of the values and resources of Independence National Historical Park.

“(g) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Agreement.—The term ‘Agreement’ means an agreement under this section between the Secretary and the Corporation.

“(2) Center.—The term ‘Center’ means a Gateway Visitor Center constructed and operated in accordance with the Agreement.

“(3) Corporation.—The term ‘Corporation’ means the Gateway Visitor Center Corporation (a nonprofit corporation established under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania).

“(4) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of the Interior.”


