§ 144. Director of Small Business Programs(a) Director.—There is a Director of Small Business Programs in the Department of Defense. The Director is appointed by the Secretary of Defense.

(b) Office of Small Business Programs.—The Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of Defense is the office that is established within the Office of the Secretary of Defense under section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)). The Director of Small Business Programs is the head of such office.

(c) Duties and Powers.—(1) The Director of Small Business Programs shall, subject to paragraph (2), perform such duties regarding small business programs of the Department of Defense, and shall exercise such powers regarding those programs, as the Secretary of Defense may prescribe.

(2) Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)), except for the designations of the Director and the Office, applies to the Director of Small Business Programs.


(Added Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title IX, § 904(b)(1), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3400.)


Change of Name
Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title IX, § 904(a), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3399, provided that:
“(1) Positions redesignated.—The following positions within the Department of Defense are redesignated as follows:“(A) The Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization of the Department of Defense is redesignated as the Director of Small Business Programs of the Department of Defense.

“(B) The Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization of the Department of the Army is redesignated as the Director of Small Business Programs of the Department of the Army.

“(C) The Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization of the Department of the Navy is redesignated as the Director of Small Business Programs of the Department of the Navy.

“(D) The Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization of the Department of the Air Force is redesignated as the Director of Small Business Programs of the Department of the Air Force.


“(2) Offices redesignated.—The following offices within the Department of Defense are redesignated as follows:“(A) The Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization of the Department of Defense is redesignated as the Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of Defense.

“(B) The Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization of the Department of the Army is redesignated as the Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of the Army.

“(C) The Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization of the Department of the Navy is redesignated as the Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of the Navy.

“(D) The Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization of the Department of the Air Force is redesignated as the Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of the Air Force.


“(3) References.—Any reference in any law, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to a position or office redesignated by paragraph (1) or (2) shall be deemed to be a reference to the position or office as so redesignated.”




Role of the Directors of Small Business Programs in Acquisition Processes of the Department of DefensePub. L. 112–239, div. A, title XVI, § 1611, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2063, provided that:
“(a) Guidance Required.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop and issue guidance to ensure that the head of each Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of Defense is a participant as early as practicable in the acquisition processes—“(1) of the Department, in the case of the Director of Small Business Programs in the Department of Defense; and

“(2) of the military department concerned, in the case of the Director of Small Business Programs in the Department of the Army, in the Department of the Navy, and in the Department of the Air Force.


“(b) Matters To Be Included.—Such guidance shall, at a minimum—“(1) require the Director of Small Business Programs in the Department of Defense—“(A) to provide advice to the Defense Acquisition Board; and

“(B) to provide advice to the Information Technology Acquisition Board; and


“(2) require coordination between the chiefs of staff of the Armed Forces and the service acquisition executives, as appropriate (or their designees), and the Director of Small Business Programs in each military department as early as practical in the relevant acquisition processes.”






