§ 2279aa–10. Funding for guarantee; reserves of Corporation(a) GuaranteeThe Corporation shall provide guarantees for securities representing interests in, or obligations backed by, pools of qualified loans through commitments issued by the Corporation providing for guarantees.


(b) Guarantee fees(1) Initial feeAt the time a guarantee is issued by the Corporation, the Corporation shall assess the certified facility a fee of not more than ½ of 1 percent of the initial principal amount of each pool of qualified loans.


(2) Annual feesBeginning in the second year after the date the guarantee is issued under paragraph (1), the Corporation may, at the end of each year, assess the certified facility an annual fee of not more than ½ of 1 percent of the principal amount of the loans then constituting the pool.


(3) Determination of amountThe Corporation shall establish such fees on the amount of risk incurred by the Corporation in providing the guarantees with respect to which such fee is assessed, as determined by the Corporation. Fees assessed under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be established on an actuarially sound basis.


(4) Review by GAOThe Comptroller General of the United States may review, and submit to the Congress a report regarding, the actuarial soundness and reasonableness of the fees established by the Corporation under this subsection.



(c) Corporation reserve against guarantees losses required(1) In generalSo much of the fees assessed under this section as the Board determines to be necessary shall be set aside by the Corporation in a segregated account as a reserve against losses arising out of the guarantee activities of the Corporation.


(2) Exhaustion of reserve requiredThe Corporation may not issue obligations to the Secretary of the Treasury under section 2279aa–13 of this title in order to meet the obligations of the Corporation with respect to any guarantees provided under this subchapter until the reserve established under paragraph (1) has been exhausted.



(d) Fees to cover administrative costs authorizedThe Corporation may impose charges or fees in reasonable amounts in connection with the administration of its activities under this subchapter to recover its costs for performing such administration.


(Pub. L. 92–181, title VIII, § 8.10, as added Pub. L. 100–233, title VII, § 702, Jan. 6, 1988, 101 Stat. 1701; amended Pub. L. 104–316, title I, § 106(f), Oct. 19, 1996, 110 Stat. 3831.)

Amendments1996—Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 104–316 substituted “Review” for “Annual review” in heading and “may review” for “shall annually review” in text.


