§ 410jj–4. Administration(a) Laws governingThe Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with the provisions of sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, and sections 461 to 467 of this title, and the provisions of this Act.


(b) Emergency, temporary, and interim activities; cooperative agreements; expenditures; rehabilitation projects(1) With the approval of the owner thereof, the Secretary may undertake critical or emergency stabilization of utilities and historic structures, develop and occupy temporary office space, and conduct interim interpretive and visitor services on non-Federal property within the park.

(2) The Secretary shall seek and may enter into cooperative agreements with the owner or owners of property within the park pursuant to which the Secretary may preserve, protect, maintain, construct, reconstruct, develop, improve, and interpret sites, facilities, and resources of historic, natural, architectural, and cultural significance. Such agreements shall be of not less than twenty years duration, may be extended and amended by mutual agreement, and shall include, without limitation, provisions that the Secretary shall have the right of access at reasonable times to public portions of the property for interpretive and other purposes, and that no changes or alterations shall be made in the property except by mutual agreement. Each such agreement shall also provide that the owner shall be liable to the United States in an amount equal to the fair market value of any capital improvements made to or placed upon the property in the event the agreement is terminated prior to its natural expiration, or any extension thereof, by the owner, such value to be determined as of the date of such termination, or, at the election of the Secretary, that the Secretary be permitted to remove such capital improvements within a reasonable time of such termination. Upon the expiration of such agreement, the improvements thereon shall become the property of the owner, unless the United States desires to remove such capital improvements and restore the property to its natural state within a reasonable time for such expiration.

(3) Except for emergency, temporary, and interim activities as authorized in paragraph (1) of this subsection, no funds appropriated pursuant to this Act shall be expended on non-Federal property unless such expenditure is pursuant to a cooperative agreement with the owner.

(4) The Secretary may stabilize and rehabilitate structures and other properties used for religious or sectarian purposes only if such properties constitute a substantial and integral part of the historical fabric of the Kalaupapa settlement, and only to the extent necessary and appropriate to interpret adequately the nationally significant historical features and events of the settlement for the benefit of the public.


(Pub. L. 96–565, title I, § 105, Dec. 22, 1980, 94 Stat. 3322.)


References in TextThis Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(3), is Pub. L. 96–565, Dec. 22, 1980, 94 Stat. 3321, which enacted this subchapter and provisions set out as a note under section 2991a of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Memorial to Individuals Forcibly Relocated to Kalaupapa PeninsulaPub. L. 111–11, title VII, § 7108, Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1196, provided that:
“(a) In General.—The Secretary of the Interior shall authorize Ka ‘Ohana O Kalaupapa, a non-profit organization consisting of patient residents at Kalaupapa National Historical Park, and their family members and friends, to establish a memorial at a suitable location or locations approved by the Secretary at Kalawao or Kalaupapa within the boundaries of Kalaupapa National Historical Park located on the island of Molokai, in the State of Hawaii, to honor and perpetuate the memory of those individuals who were forcibly relocated to Kalaupapa Peninsula from 1866 to 1969.

“(b) Design.—“(1) In general.—The memorial authorized by subsection (a) shall—“(A) display in an appropriate manner the names of the first 5,000 individuals sent to the Kalaupapa Peninsula between 1866 and 1896, most of whom lived at Kalawao; and

“(B) display in an appropriate manner the names of the approximately 3,000 individuals who arrived at Kalaupapa in the second part of its history, when most of the community was concentrated on the Kalaupapa side of the peninsula.


“(2) Approval.—The location, size, design, and inscriptions of the memorial authorized by subsection (a) shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.


“(c) Funding.—Ka ‘Ohana O Kalaupapa, a nonprofit organization, shall be solely responsible for acceptance of contributions for and payment of the expenses associated with the establishment of the memorial.”





