“SEC. 3413. EFFECT OF SALE OF RESERVE.“(a) Effect on Existing Contracts.—(1) In the case of any contract, in effect on the effective date, for the purchase of production from any part of the United States’ share of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1, the sale of the interest of the United States in the reserve shall be subject to the contract for a period of three months after the closing date of the sale or until termination of the contract, whichever occurs first. The term of any contract entered into after the effective date for the purchase of the production shall not exceed the anticipated closing date for the sale of the reserve.

“(2) The Secretary shall exercise the termination procedures provided in the contract between the United States and Bechtel Petroleum Operation, Inc., Contract Number DE–ACO1–85FE60520 so that the contract terminates not later than the date of closing of the sale of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 under section 3412.

“(3) The Secretary shall exercise the termination procedures provided in the unit plan contract so that the unit plan contract terminates not later than the date of closing of the sale of reserve.


“(b) Effect on Antitrust Laws.—Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to alter the application of the antitrust laws of the United States to the purchaser or purchasers (as the case may be) of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 or to the lands in the reserve subject to sale under section 3412 upon the completion of the sale.

“(c) Preservation of Private Right, Title, and Interest.—Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to adversely affect the ownership interest of any other entity having any right, title, and interest in and to lands within the boundaries of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 and which are subject to the unit plan contract.

“(d) Transfer of Otherwise Nontransferable Permit.—The Secretary may transfer to the purchaser or purchasers (as the case may be) of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 the incidental take permit regarding the reserve issued to the Secretary by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and in effect on the effective date if the Secretary determines that transfer of the permit is necessary to expedite the sale of the reserve in a manner that maximizes the value of the sale to the United States. The transferred permit shall cover the identical activities, and shall be subject to the same terms and conditions, as apply to the permit at the time of the transfer.

