“SEC. 1611. SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE OFFICE.“(a) Appointment of Director.—There shall be a Director of the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office, who shall be appointed from among general or flag officers of the Armed Forces or employees of the Department of Defense in a comparable Senior Executive Service position. During the development and implementation of the comprehensive policy for the Department of Defense sexual assault prevention and response program, the Director shall operate under the oversight of the Advisory Working Group of the Deputy Secretary of Defense.

“(b) Duties of Director.—The Director of the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office shall—“(1) oversee implementation of the comprehensive policy for the Department of Defense sexual assault prevention and response program;

“(2) serve as the single point of authority, accountability, and oversight for the sexual assault prevention and response program;

“(3) provide oversight to ensure that the military departments comply with the sexual assault prevention and response program;

“(4) collect and maintain data of the military departments on sexual assault in accordance with subsection (e);

“(5) act as liaison between the Department of Defense and other Federal and State agencies on programs and efforts relating to sexual assault prevention and response; and

“(6) oversee development of strategic program guidance and joint planning objectives for resources in support of the sexual assault prevention and response program, and make recommendations on modifications to policy, law, and regulations needed to ensure the continuing availability of such resources.


“(c) Role of Inspectors General.—“(1) In general.—The Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Inspector General of the Army, the Naval Inspector General, and the Inspector General of the Air Force shall treat the sexual assault prevention and response program as an item of special interest when conducting inspections of organizations and activities with responsibilities regarding the prevention and response to sexual assault.

“(2) Composition of investigation teams.—The Inspector General inspection teams shall include at least one member with expertise and knowledge of sexual assault prevention and response policies related to a specific Armed Force.


“(d) Staff.—“(1) Assignment.—Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 7, 2011], an officer from each of the Armed Forces in the grade of O–4 or above shall be assigned to the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office for a minimum tour length of at least 18 months.

“(2) Higher grade.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1), of the four officers assigned to the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office under this subsection at any time, one officer shall be in the grade of O–6 or above.


“(e) Data Collection and Maintenance Metrics.—In carrying out the requirements of subsection (b)(4), the Director of the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office shall develop metrics to measure the effectiveness of, and compliance with, training and awareness objectives of the military departments on sexual assault prevention and response.

