§ 470aaa–5. Prohibited acts; criminal penalties(a) In generalA person may not—(1) excavate, remove, damage, or otherwise alter or deface or attempt to excavate, remove, damage, or otherwise alter or deface any paleontological resources located on Federal land unless such activity is conducted in accordance with this chapter;

(2) exchange, transport, export, receive, or offer to exchange, transport, export, or receive any paleontological resource if the person knew or should have known such resource to have been excavated or removed from Federal land in violation of any provisions, rule, regulation, law, ordinance, or permit in effect under Federal law, including this chapter; or

(3) sell or purchase or offer to sell or purchase any paleontological resource if the person knew or should have known such resource to have been excavated, removed, sold, purchased, exchanged, transported, or received from Federal land.


(b) False labeling offensesA person may not make or submit any false record, account, or label for, or any false identification of, any paleontological resource excavated or removed from Federal land.


(c) PenaltiesA person who knowingly violates or counsels, procures, solicits, or employs another person to violate subsection (a) or (b) shall, upon conviction, be fined in accordance with title 18 or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both; but if the sum of the commercial and paleontological value of the paleontological resources involved and the cost of restoration and repair of such resources does not exceed $500, such person shall be fined in accordance with title 18 or imprisoned not more than 2 years, or both.


(d) Multiple offensesIn the case of a second or subsequent violation by the same person, the amount of the penalty assessed under subsection (c) may be doubled.


(e) General exceptionNothing in subsection (a) shall apply to any person with respect to any paleontological resource which was in the lawful possession of such person prior to March 30, 2009.


(Pub. L. 111–11, title VI, § 6306, Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1174.)
