§ 713a–7. Exchange of surplus agricultural commodities for reserve stocks of strategic materials
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, has concluded a treaty involving the exchange of surplus agricultural commodities produced in the United States which are held under loans made or made available by the Commodity Credit Corporation for stocks of strategic and critical materials produced abroad, the Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized, upon terms and conditions prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture, to accept such strategic and critical materials in exchange for such surplus agricultural commodities; and for the purpose of such exchange the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary of the Interior acting jointly through the agency of the Munitions Board shall determine which materials are strategic and critical and the quantity and quality of such materials. In order to carry out the provisions of this section, the Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized, upon terms and conditions prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture, to procure, convey, transport, handle, store, maintain, or rotate such surplus agricultural commodities, and such reserve stocks of strategic and critical materials, as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of this section.
The Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized and directed to transfer to warehouses in or near cotton manufacturing centers in New England not to exceed three hundred thousand bales of cotton, to which it now has title or may hereafter acquire title, having regard for the grades and staples customarily required by manufacturers in that area: Provided, That all necessary costs in connection with such transfer will not result in additional net cost to the Corporation.
In determining specific cotton to be exchanged under this section, the determination shall be made by sampling and selection at the place where the cotton is stored on the date of ratification of a treaty providing for such exchange, and no cotton shall be exchanged under such treaty which, after such date, is transported to another place and there sampled and selected. Such reserve stocks of strategic and critical materials shall be stored on military or naval reservations or in other locations approved by the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Navy. The Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized to transfer such reserve stocks of strategic and critical materials, upon such terms and conditions as the Secretary of Agriculture shall approve, to any other governmental agency. Such reserve stocks or strategic and critical materials shall be made available or disposed of by the Commodity Credit Corporation or other governmental agency only upon order of the President in accordance with the terms of the applicable treaty; when necessary to prevent deterioration, the Commodity Credit Corporation or other governmental agency is authorized to replace those quantities of the reserve stocks of such strategic and critical materials subject to deterioration with equivalent quantities of the same materials. The funds now or hereafter made available to the Commodity Credit Corporation are made available to carry out the purposes of this section. There is authorized to be appropriated such additional sums as may be required to carry out the provisions of this section. All funds for carrying out the provisions of this section shall be available for allotment to bureaus and offices of the Department of Agriculture, and for transfer to such other agencies of the Federal Government as the Secretary of Agriculture may request to cooperate or assist in carrying out the provisions of this section.
(Aug. 11, 1939, ch. 690, 53 Stat. 1407; July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, § 205(a), 61 Stat. 501.)

Codification
The Department of War was designated the Department of the Army and the title of the Secretary of War was changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, 61 Stat. 501. Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 641. Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3011 to 3013 continued the military Department of the Army under the administrative supervision of a Secretary of the Army.


Transfer of Functions
Munitions Board abolished by section 2 of Reorg. Plan No. 6 of 1953, 18 F.R. 3743, 67 Stat. 638, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and functions of Munitions Board transferred to Secretary of Defense by section 1 of Reorg. Plan No. 6 of 1953.
Army and Navy Munitions Board ceased to exist when Chairman of Board of Munitions took office and records and personnel of Army and Navy Munitions Board were transferred to Munitions Board by act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, § 213, 61 Stat. 505.


Exceptions From Transfer of Functions
For exception of functions of corporations of Department of Agriculture from transfer of functions to Secretary of Agriculture by Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1953, see Exceptions From Transfer of Functions note set out under section 712a of this title.


