§ 450jj–6. Jefferson National Expansion Memorial Commission(a) EstablishmentThere is hereby established the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial Commission (hereinafter in sections 450jj–6 to 450jj–9 of this title referred to as the “Commission”).


(b) CompositionThe Commission shall be composed of twenty members as follows:(1) The county executive of Saint Louis County, Missouri, ex officio, or a delegate.

(2) The chairman of the Saint Clair County Board of Supervisors, Illinois, ex officio, or a delegate.

(3)(A) The executive director of the Bi-State Development Agency, Saint Louis, Missouri, ex officio, or a delegate.

(B) A member of the Bi-State Development Agency, Saint Louis, Missouri, who is not a resident of the same State as the executive director of such agency, appointed by a majority of the members of such agency, or a delegate.


(4) The mayor of the city of East Saint Louis, Illinois, ex officio, or a delegate.

(5) The mayor of Saint Louis, Missouri, ex officio, or a delegate.

(6) The Governor of the State of Illinois, ex officio, or a delegate.

(7) The Governor of the State of Missouri, ex officio, or a delegate.

(8) The Secretary of the Interior, ex officio, or a delegate.

(9) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, ex officio, or a delegate.

(10) The Secretary of Transportation, ex officio, or a delegate.

(11) The Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio, or a delegate.

(12) The Secretary of Commerce, ex officio, or a delegate.

(13) The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, ex officio, or a delegate.

(14) Three individuals appointed by the Secretary of the Interior from a list of individuals nominated by the mayor of East Saint Louis, Illinois, and the Governor of the State of Illinois.

(15) Three individuals appointed by the Secretary of the Interior from a list of individuals nominated by the mayor of Saint Louis, Missouri, and the Governor of the State of Missouri.


Individuals nominated for appointment under paragraphs (14) and (15) shall be individuals who have knowledge and experience in one or more of the fields of parks and recreation, environmental protection, historic preservation, cultural affairs, tourism, economic development, city planning and management, finance, or public administration. A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.

(c) Term of office of members(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms of three years.

(2) Of the members of the Commission first appointed under paragraphs (14) and (15) of subsection (c) 11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection (b)”. of this section—(A) two shall be appointed for terms of one year;

(B) two shall be appointed for terms of two years; and

(C) two shall be appointed for terms of three years;


as designated by the Secretary of the Interior at the time of appointment.

(3) Any member of the Commission appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term. A member of the Commission may serve after the expiration of his term until his successor has taken office.


(d) Compensation of members; travel expenses and per diemMembers of the Commission shall receive no pay on account of their service on the Commission, but while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission, members of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5.


(e) ChairpersonThe chairperson of the Commission shall be elected by the members of the Commission.


(f) Assistance from Federal agenciesUpon request of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency represented by members on the Commission may detail any of the personnel or 22 So in original. Probably should be “of”. such agency, or provide administrative services to the Commission to assist the Commission in carrying out the Commission’s duties under section 450jj–7 of this title.


(g) Gifts, bequests, or donationsThe Commission may, for the purposes of carrying out the Commission’s duties under section 450jj–7 of this title, seek, accept, and dispose of gifts, bequests, or donations of money, personal property, or services, received from any source.


(h) Termination; extension(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Commission shall terminate on the day occurring ten years after August 24, 1984.

(2) The Secretary of the Interior may extend the life of the Commission for a period of not more than five years beginning on the day referred to in paragraph (1) if the Commission determines that such extension is necessary in order for the Commission to carry out sections 450jj to 450jj–9 of this title.


(May 17, 1954, ch. 204, § 7, as added Pub. L. 98–398, title II, § 201(a), Aug. 24, 1984, 98 Stat. 1469.)
