§ 460sss. Cow Mountain Recreation Area, Lake and Mendocino Counties, California(a) EstablishmentIn order to enhance the recreational and scenic values of the Cow Mountain area in Lake and Mendocino Counties, California, while conserving the wildlife and other natural resource values of the area, there is hereby established the Cow Mountain Recreation Area (in this section referred to as the “recreation area”) consisting of approximately 51,513 acres of land in such counties, as generally depicted on the map entitled “Cow Mountain Recreation Area” and dated July 22, 2006, including the following:(1) The “South Cow Mountain OHV Management Area”, as generally depicted on the map.

(2) The “North Cow Mountain Recreation Area”, as generally depicted on the map.


(b) Legal descriptions; correction of errors(1) Preparation and submissionAs soon as practicable after October 17, 2006, the Secretary of the Interior shall prepare a map and legal descriptions of the boundaries of the recreation area. The Secretary shall submit the map and legal descriptions to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.


(2) Legal effectThe map and legal descriptions of the recreation area shall have the same force and effect as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors in the map and legal descriptions. The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.



(c) Administration(1) In generalThe Secretary of the Interior shall administer the recreation area in accordance with this section and the laws and regulations generally applicable to the public lands, including the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).


(2) Existing rightsThe establishment of the recreation area shall be subject to all valid existing rights.



(d) Recreational activities(1) In generalThe Secretary of the Interior shall continue to authorize, maintain, and enhance the recreational use of the land included in the recreation area, including motorized recreation, hiking, camping, mountain biking, sightseeing, and horseback riding, as long as such recreational use is consistent with this section and other applicable law.


(2) Off-road and motorized recreationMotorized recreation shall be a prescribed use within the South Cow Mountain OHV Management Area, occurring only on roads and trails designated by the Secretary for such use, except as needed for administrative purposes or to respond to an emergency. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as precluding the Secretary from closing any trail or route from use for purposes of resource protection or public safety.


(3) Mountain bikingMountain biking shall be a prescribed use within the recreation area, occurring only on roads and trails designated by the Secretary for such use. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as precluding the Secretary from closing any trail or route from use for purposes of resource protection or public safety.



(e) Access to private propertyThe Secretary of the Interior shall provide any owner of private property within the boundaries of the recreation area adequate access to the property to ensure the reasonable use and enjoyment of the property by the owner.


(f) Land acquisition(1) Acquisition from willing persons onlyThe Secretary of the Interior may acquire lands or interests in lands in the recreation area only by—(A) donation;

(B) exchange with a willing party, as expressed in a written agreement between the Secretary and the party; or

(C) purchase from a willing seller, as expressed in a written agreement between the Secretary and the seller.


(2) Administration of acquired landsLands or interests in lands within or adjacent to the boundaries of the recreation area that are acquired by the Bureau of Land Management, and title or possession of which is vested in the United States after October 17, 2006, shall be managed by the Secretary as part of the recreation area.



(g) Adjacent managementNothing in this section creates protective perimeters or buffer zones around the recreation area.


(Pub. L. 109–362, § 9, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2071.)


References in TextThis Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is Pub. L. 109–362, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2064, known as the Northern California Coastal Wild Heritage Wilderness Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note below and Tables.
The Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is Pub. L. 94–579, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2743, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of Title 43 and Tables.


Change of Name
Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.

Short TitlePub. L. 109–362, § 1(a), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2064, provided that: “This Act [enacting this section, amending sections 460y–8 and 1274 of this title, and amending provisions listed in a table of Wilderness Areas set out under section 1132 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Northern California Coastal Wild Heritage Wilderness Act’.”



