“SEC. 4492. COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROGRAMS.“(a) Veterans Education Programs.—(1) Assistance may not be paid under this subtitle to an employer on behalf of an eligible person for any period of time described in paragraph (2) and to such eligible person under chapter 30, 31, 32, 35, or 36 of title 38, United States Code, or chapter 106 of title 10, United States Code, for the same period of time.

“(2) A period of time referred to in paragraph (1) is the period of time beginning on the date on which the eligible person enters into an approved program of job training of an employer for purposes of assistance under this subtitle and ending on the last date for which such assistance is payable.


“(b) Other Training and Employment.—Assistance may not be paid under this subtitle to an employer on behalf of an eligible person for any period if the employer receives for that period any other form of assistance on account of the training or employment of the eligible person, including assistance under title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.] or a credit under section 51 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 51] (relating to credit for employment of certain new employees).

“(c) Previous Completion of Program.—Assistance may not be paid under this subtitle on behalf of an eligible person who has completed a program of job training under this subtitle.

“(d) Promotion.—(1) In carrying out section 3116(b) of title 38, United States Code, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall take all feasible steps to establish and encourage, for eligible persons who are eligible to have payments made on their behalf under such section, the development of training opportunities through programs of job training under this subtitle.

“(2) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in cooperation with the implementing official (unless the Secretary of Veterans Affairs is the implementing official), shall take all feasible steps to ensure that, in the cases of eligible persons who are eligible to have payments made on their behalf under both this subtitle and section 3116(b) of title 38, United States Code, the authority under such section is utilized, to the maximum extent feasible and consistent with the eligible person’s best interests, to make payments to employers on behalf of such eligible persons.


