§ 410hh–1. Additions to existing areas
The following units of the National Park System are hereby expanded:(1) Glacier Bay National Monument, by the addition of an area containing approximately five hundred and twenty-three thousand acres of Federal Land. Approximately fifty-seven thousand acres of additional public land is hereby established as Glacier Bay National Preserve, both as generally depicted on map numbered GLBA–90,004, and dated October 1978; furthermore, the monument is hereby redesignated as “Glacier Bay National Park”. The monument addition and preserve shall be managed for the following purposes, among others: To protect a segment of the Alsek River, fish and wildlife habitats and migration routes, and a portion of the Fairweather Range including the northwest slope of Mount Fairweather. Lands, waters, and interests therein within the boundary of the park and preserve which were within the boundary of any national forest are hereby excluded from such national forest and the boundary of such national forest is hereby revised accordingly.

(2) Katmai National Monument, by the addition of an area containing approximately one million and thirty-seven thousand acres of public land. Approximately three hundred and eight thousand acres of additional public land is hereby established as Katmai National Preserve, both as generally depicted on map numbered 90,007, and dated July 1980; furthermore, the monument is hereby redesignated as “Katmai National Park”. The monument addition and preserve shall be managed for the following purposes, among others: To protect habitats for, and populations of, fish and wildlife including, but not limited to, high concentrations of brown/grizzly bears and their denning areas; to maintain unimpaired the water habitat for significant salmon populations; and to protect scenic, geological, cultural and recreational features.

(3)(a) Mount McKinley National Park, by the addition of an area containing approximately two million four hundred and twenty-six thousand acres of public land, and approximately one million three hundred and thirty thousand acres of additional public land is hereby established as Denali National Preserve, both as generally depicted on map numbered DENA–90,007, and dated July 1980 and the whole is hereby redesignated as Denali National Park and Preserve. The park additions and preserve shall be managed for the following purposes, among others: To protect and interpret the entire mountain massif, and additional scenic mountain peaks and formations; and to protect habitat for, and populations of fish and wildlife including, but not limited to, brown/grizzly bears, moose, caribou, Dall sheep, wolves, swans and other waterfowl; and to provide continued opportunities, including reasonable access, for mountain climbing, mountaineering and other wilderness recreational activities. Subsistence uses by local residents shall be permitted in the additions to the park where such uses are traditional in accordance with the provisions in subchapter II of chapter 51 of this title.

(b) The Alaska Land Use Council shall, in cooperation with the Secretary, conduct a study of the Kantishna Hills and Dunkle Mine areas of the park as generally depicted on a map entitled “Kantishna Hills/Dunkle Mine Study Area” dated October 1979, and report thereon to the Congress not later than three years from December 2, 1980. The study and report shall evaluate the resources of the area, including but not limited to, fish and wildlife, public recreation opportunities, wilderness potential, historic resources, and minerals, and shall include those recommendations respecting resources and other relevant matters which the Council determines are necessary. In conjunction with the study required by this section, the Council, in consultation with the Secretary, shall compile information relating to the mineral potential of the areas encompassed within the study, the estimated cost of acquiring mining properties, and the environmental consequences of further mineral development.

(c) During the period of the study, no acquisition of privately owned land shall be permitted within the study area, except with the consent of the owner, and the holders of valid mining claims shall be permitted to operate on their claims, subject to reasonable regulations designed to minimize damage to the environment: Provided, however, That such lands or claims shall be subject to acquisition without the consent of the owner or holder if the Secretary determines, after notice and opportunity for hearing, if such notice and hearing are not otherwise required by applicable law or regulation, that activities on such lands or claims will significantly impair important scenic, wildlife, or recreational values of the public lands which are the subject of the study.


(Pub. L. 96–487, title II, § 202, Dec. 2, 1980, 94 Stat. 2382; Pub. L. 97–468, title VI, § 615(b)(5), Jan. 14, 1983, 96 Stat. 2578.)

Amendments1983—Subsec. (3)(a). Pub. L. 97–468 struck out provision that the portion of the Alaska Railroad right-of-way within the park be subject to such laws and regulations applicable to the protection of fish and wildlife and other park values as the Secretary, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Transportation, might determine.

Effective Date of 1983 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 97–468 became effective on date of transfer of Alaska Railroad to the State [Jan. 5, 1985], pursuant to section 1203 of Title 45, Railroads, see section 615(b) of Pub. L. 97–468.

Glacier Bay National Park Boundary AdjustmentPub. L. 105–317, Oct. 30, 1998, 112 Stat. 3002, provided for exchange of land between United States and Alaska no later than six months after issuance of license to Gustavus Electric Company by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for construction and operation of hydroelectric project; provided for approximately same amount of designated wilderness after transfer as before it; provided environmental, economic, and other conditions on the transfer; provided for role of FERC and Secretary of the Interior in land exchange and hydroelectric project; and provided for authorities and jurisdictions provided in Pub. L. 105–317 to continue in effect until modified or repealed by Congress.

Katmai National Park Land ExchangePub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(e) [title I, § 135], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–231, 2681–264, provided that:
“(a) Ratification of Agreement.—“(1) Ratification.—“(A) In general.—The terms, conditions, procedures, covenants, reservations, and other provisions set forth in the document entitled ‘Agreement for the Sale, Purchase and Conveyance of Lands between the Heirs, Designees and/or Assigns of Palakia Melgenak and the United States of America’ (hereinafter referred to in this section as the ‘Agreement’), executed by its signatories, including the heirs, designees and/or assigns of Palakia Melgenak (hereinafter referred to in this section as the ‘Heirs’) effective on September 1, 1998 are authorized, ratified and confirmed, and set forth the obligations and commitments of the United States and all other signatories, as a matter of Federal law.

“(B) Native allotment.—Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, all lands described in section 2(c) of the Agreement for conveyance to the Heirs shall be deemed a replacement transaction under ‘An Act to relieve restricted Indians in the Five Civilized Tribes whose nontaxable lands are required for State, county or municipal improvements or sold to other persons or for other purposes’ (25 U.S.C. 409a, 46 Stat. 1471), as amended, and the Secretary shall convey such lands by a patent consistent with the terms of the Agreement and subject to the same restraints on alienation and tax-exempt status as provided for Native allotments pursuant to ‘An Act authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to allot homesteads to the natives of Alaska’ (34 Stat. 197) [former 43 U.S.C. 270–1 to 270–3], as amended, repealed by section 18(a) [of] the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 710) [43 U.S.C. 1617(a)], with a savings clause for applications pending on December 18, 1971.

“(C) Land acquisition.—Lands and interests in land acquired by the United States pursuant to the Agreement shall be administered by the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Secretary’) as part of the Katmai National Park, subject to the laws and regulations applicable thereto.


“(2) Maps and deeds.—The maps and deeds set forth in the Agreement generally depict the lands subject to the conveyances, the retention of consultation rights, the conservation easement, the access rights, Alaska Native Allotment Act [34 Stat. 197] status, and the use and transfer restrictions.


“(b) Katmai National Park and Preserve Wilderness.—Upon the date of closing of the conveyance of the approximately 10 acres of Katmai National Park Wilderness lands to be conveyed to the Heirs under the Agreement, the following lands shall hereby be designated part of the Katmai Wilderness as designated by section 701(4) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 94 Stat. 2417):“A strip of land approximately one half mile long and 165 feet wide lying within Section 1, Township 24 South, Range 33 West, Seward Meridian, Alaska, the center line of which is the center of the unnamed stream from its mouth at Geographic Harbor to the north line of said Section 1. Said unnamed stream flows from the unnamed lake located in Sections 25 and 26, Township 23 South, Range 33 West, Seward Meridian. This strip of land contains approximately 10 acres.


“(c) Availability of Appropriation.—None of the funds appropriated in this Act or any other Act hereafter enacted for the implementation of the Agreement may be expended until the Secretary determines that the Heirs have signed a valid and full relinquishment and release of any and all claims described in section 2(d) of the Agreement.

“(d) General Provisions.—“(1) All of the lands designated as Wilderness pursuant to this section shall be subject to any valid existing rights.

“(2) Subject to the provisions of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act [see Short Title note set out under section 3101 of this title], the Secretary shall ensure that the lands in the Geographic Harbor area not directly affected by the Agreement remain accessible for the public, including its mooring and mechanized transportation needs.

“(3) The Agreement shall be placed on file and available for public inspection at the Alaska Regional Office of the National Park Service, at the office of the Katmai National Park and Preserve in King Salmon, Alaska, and at least one public facility managed by the Federal, State or local government located in each of Homer, Alaska, and Kodiak, Alaska and such other public facilities which the Secretary determines are suitable and accessible for such public inspections. In addition, as soon as practicable after enactment of this provision [Oct. 21, 1998], the Secretary shall make available for public inspection in those same offices, copies of all maps and legal descriptions of lands prepared in implementing either the Agreement or this section. Such legal descriptions shall be published in the Federal Register and filed with the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate.”






