§ 1731b. Prohibition against transient housing(a) Intent of CongressThe Congress declares that it has been its intent since the enactment of this chapter that housing built with the aid of mortgages insured under this chapter is to be used principally for residential use; and that this intent excludes the use of such housing for transient or hotel purposes while such insurance on the mortgage remains outstanding.


(b) Exceptions to prohibitionNotwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no new, existing, or rehabilitated multifamily housing with respect to which a mortgage is insured under this chapter shall be operated for transient or hotel purposes unless (1) on or before May 28, 1954, the Secretary has agreed in writing to the rental of all or a portion of the accommodations in the project for transient or hotel purposes (in which case no accommodations in excess of the number so agreed to by the Secretary shall be rented on such basis), or (2) the project covered by the insured mortgage is located in an area which the Secretary determines to be a resort area, and the Secretary finds that prior to May 28, 1954, a portion of the accommodations in the project had been made available for rent for transient or hotel purposes (in which case no accommodations in excess of the number which had been made available for such use shall be rented on such basis).


(c) Certification as to use as requisite for insurance; exceptions to prohibition against insuringNotwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no mortgage with respect to multifamily housing shall be insured under this chapter (except pursuant to a commitment to insure issued prior to August 2, 1954), and (except as to housing coming within the provisions of clause (1) or clause (2) of subsection (b)) no mortgage with respect to multifamily housing shall be insured for an additional term, unless (1) the mortgagor certifies under oath that while such insurance remains outstanding he will not rent, or permit the rental of, such housing or any part thereof for transient or hotel purposes, and (2) the Secretary has entered into such contract with, or purchased such stock of, the mortgagor as the Secretary deems necessary to enable him to prevent or terminate any use of such property or project for transient or hotel purposes while the mortgage insurance remains outstanding.


(d) Enforcement by SecretaryThe Secretary is authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this section by all appropriate means at his disposal, as to all existing multifamily housing with respect to which a mortgage was insured under this chapter prior to August 2, 1954, as well as to all multifamily housing with respect to which a mortgage is hereafter insured under this chapter: Provided, That no criminal penalty shall, by reason of enactment of this section, be applicable to the rental or operation of any such existing multifamily housing in violation of any provision of subsection (b) of this section at any time prior to August 2, 1954.


(e) DefinitionsAs used in this section, (1) the term “rental for transient or hotel purposes” shall have such meaning as prescribed by the Secretary but rental for any period less than thirty days shall in any event constitute rental for such purposes, and (2) the term “multifamily housing” shall mean (i) a property held by a mortgagor upon which there are located five or more single family dwellings, or upon which there is located a two-, three-, or four-family dwelling, or (ii) a property or project covered by mortgage insured or to be insured under section 1713 of this title, under section 1715e of this title with respect to any property or project of a corporation or trust of the character described in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) thereof, under section 1715k of this title if the mortgage is within the provisions of paragraph (3) (B) of subsection (d) thereof, under section 1715l of this title if the mortgage is within the provisions of paragraph (3) of subsection (d) thereof, under section 1743, 1748b, or 1750g of this title, or (iii) a project with respect to which an insurance contract pursuant to subchapter VII is outstanding.


(f) Investigation after notice of violation; cease orderPromptly after receipt of written notice that any portion of any building is being rented or operated in violation of any provision of this section or of any rule or regulation lawfully issued thereunder, the Secretary shall investigate the existence of the facts alleged in the written notice and shall order such violation, if found to exist, to cease forthwith.


(g) Prosecution by Attorney General for continued violationIf such violation does not cease in accordance with such order, the Secretary shall forward the complaint to the Attorney General of the United States for prosecution of such civil or criminal action, if any, which the Attorney General may find to be involved in such violation.


(h) Judicial procedure for injunction or other orderWhenever he finds a violation of any provision of this section has occurred or is about to occur, the Attorney General shall petition the district court of the United States or the district court of any Territory or other place subject to United States jurisdiction within whose jurisdictional limits the person doing or committing the acts or practices constituting the alleged violation of this section shall be found, for an order enjoining such acts or practices, and upon a showing by the Attorney General that such acts or practices constituting such violation have been engaged in or are about to be engaged in, a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or other order, with or without such injunction or restraining order, shall be granted without bond.


(i) Injunctive relief for hotel ownersAny person owning or operating a hotel within a radius of fifty miles of a place where a violation of any provision of this section has occurred or is about to occur, or any group or association of hotel owners or operators within said fifty-mile radius, at his or their sole charge or cost, may petition any district court of the United States or the district court or any Territory or other place subject to United States jurisdiction within whose jurisdictional limits the person doing or committing the acts or practices constituting the alleged violation of this section shall be found, for an order enjoining such acts or practices, and, upon a showing that such acts or practices constituting such violation have been engaged in or are about to be engaged in, a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or other order, with or without such injunction or restraining order, shall be granted.


(j) Jurisdiction of district courtsThe several district courts of the United States and the several district courts of the Territories of the United States or other place subject to United States jurisdiction, within whose jurisdictional limits the person doing or committing the acts or practices constituting the alleged violation shall be found, shall, wheresoever such acts or practices may have been done or committed, have full power and jurisdiction to hear, try, and determine such matter under subsections (h) and (i) of this section.


(June 27, 1934, ch. 847, title V, § 513, as added Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649, title I, § 132, 68 Stat. 610; amended Pub. L. 90–19, § 1(a)(3), May 25, 1967, 81 Stat. 17; Pub. L. 98–479, title II, § 204(a)(18), Oct. 17, 1984, 98 Stat. 2232.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 513 of act June 27, 1934, was renumbered section 513A of act June 27, 1934, and is classified to section 1732 of this title.

Amendments1984—Pub. L. 98–479 substituted “Prohibition against transient housing” for “Prohibition against use of insured multifamily housing for transient or hotel purposes” in section catchline.
1967—Pub. L. 90–19 substituted “Secretary” for “Commissioner” wherever appearing in subsecs. (b) to (d), (e)(1), (f), and (g).


