§ 47–2. Leases for employee housing, community facilities, administrative offices, maintenance facilities, and commercial services at or on administrative site
In furtherance of the purposes of section 47–1 of this title, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to lease lands within the El Portal administrative site for periods of not to exceed ninety-nine years to any individual, including an employee of the United States Government, to any operator of concession facilities in the park, or the administrative site, or its successor, or to any public or private corporation or organization (including a nonprofit corporation) for purposes of providing employee housing, community facilities, administrative offices, maintenance facilities, and commercial services. Such leases shall provide that if the lessee is a concessioner, corporation, or other organization (including a nonprofit corporation) such lessee may sublease the property to its employees, employees of the United States Government, or other individuals whose residence on the leased premises is solely in support of Yosemite National Park or the El Portal administrative site for terms not to exceed the remaining terms of such leases, and they shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary of the Interior may require to assure appropriate administration, protection, and development of the land for purposes incident to the provisions of facilities and services required in the operation and administration of the park: Provided, That the Secretary of the Interior shall grant such leases in consideration of payment to the United States of the fair rental value of the leased lands, as determined by him.
(Pub. L. 90–409, § 1, July 21, 1968, 82 Stat. 393; Pub. L. 99–542, § 1(1)–(3), Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3037.)

Codification
Section formerly consisted of subsecs. (a) and (b) which were based on sections 1 and 2, respectively, of Pub. L. 90–409. Section 2 was renumbered section 3 of Pub. L. 90–409 and is classified to section 47–4 of this title. A new section 2 of Pub. L. 90–409 was added and is classified to section 47–3 of this title.

Amendments1986—Pub. L. 99–542 substituted “not to exceed ninety-nine years to any individual, including an employee of the United States Government, to any operator of concession facilities in the park, or the administrative site, or its successor, or to any public or private corporation or organization (including a nonprofit corporation) for purposes of providing employee housing, community facilities, administrative offices, maintenance facilities, and commercial services” for “fifty-five years to any operator of concession facilities in the park, or its successor, for purposes of providing employee housing”, substituted “if the lessee is a concessioner, corporation, or other organization (including a nonprofit corporation) such lessee may sublease the property to its employees, employees of the United States Government, or other individuals whose residence on the leased premises is solely in support of Yosemite National Park or the El Portal administrative site” for “the concessioner may sublease the property to its employees”, struck out “an annual” before “payment” in proviso, and substituted a period for “at the beginning of each calendar year” after “him”.

Limitation on New Spending AuthorityPub. L. 99–542, § 2, Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3038, provided that: “Any new spending authority (within the meaning of section 401 of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 [2 U.S.C. 651]) which is provided under this Act [enacting sections 47–3 to 47–6 of this title and amending section 47–2 of this title] shall be effective for any fiscal year only to the extent or in such amounts as provided in appropriation Acts or to the extent that proceeds are available from any leases issued by the Secretary pursuant to the first section of this Act [probably means section 1 of Pub. L. 90–409, 16 U.S.C. 47–2].”



