§ 43. Sequoia National Park; rules and regulations; leases; fish and game; trespassers
Sequoia National Park shall be under the exclusive control of the Secretary of the Interior, whose duty it shall be to make and publish such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary or proper for the care and management of the same. Such regulations shall provide for the preservation from injury of all timber, mineral deposits, natural curiosities or wonders within said park, and their retention in their natural condition. He may, in his discretion, grant leases for building purposes for terms not exceeding thirty years of small parcels of ground not exceeding five acres, at such places in said park as shall require the erection of buildings for the accommodation of visitors. He shall provide against the wanton destruction of the fish and game found within said park, and against their capture or destruction, for the purposes of merchandise or profit. He shall also cause all persons trespassing upon the same to be removed therefrom, and, generally, shall be authorized to take all such measures as shall be necessary or proper to fully carry out the objects and purposes of this section and section 41 of this title.
(Sept. 25, 1890, ch. 926, § 2, 26 Stat. 478; Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408, § 3, 39 Stat. 535; Pub. L. 85–434, May 29, 1958, 72 Stat. 152.)

Codification
“Thirty years” substituted for “ten years” in view of section 3 of act Aug. 25, 1916, and act May 29, 1958, which authorized the Secretary to grant privileges, leases, and permits in the various parks for periods not exceeding thirty years. See section 3 of this title.
As originally enacted, this section contained a further provision that “all of the proceeds of said leases and other revenues that may be derived from any source connected with said park to be expended under his [Secretary of the Interior] direction in the management of the same and the construction of roads and paths therein”. This provision was superseded by section 452 of this title providing for the disposition of all revenues from the national parks.


