§ 916c. Unlawful acts(a) Whaling, transporting, or selling violations; records; reportsIt shall be unlawful for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States (1) to engage in whaling in violation of the convention or of any regulation of the Commission, or of this subchapter, or of any regulation of the Secretary of Commerce; (2) to ship, transport, purchase, sell, offer for sale, import, export, or have in possession any whale or whale products taken or processed in violation of the convention, or of any regulation of the Commission, or of this subchapter, or of any regulation of the Secretary of Commerce; (3) to fail to make, keep, submit, or furnish any record or report required of him by the convention, or by any regulation of the Commission, or by any regulation of the Secretary of Commerce, or to refuse to permit any officer authorized to enforce the convention, the regulations of the Commission, this subchapter, and the regulations of the Secretary of Commerce, to inspect such record or report at any reasonable time.


(b) Acts of commission or omissionIt shall be unlawful for any person or vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to do any act prohibited or to fail to do any act required by the convention, or by this subchapter, or by any regulation adopted by the Commission, or by any regulation of the Secretary of Commerce.


(Aug. 9, 1950, ch. 653, § 5, 64 Stat. 422; 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, 84 Stat. 2090.)


Transfer of Functions
Transfer of functions to Secretary of Commerce from Secretary of the Interior by Reorg. Plan No. 4 of 1970, see note set out under section 916 of this title.

Emergency Assistance for Subsistence Whale HuntersPub. L. 107–372, title IV, § 403, Dec. 19, 2002, 116 Stat. 3102, provided that: “Notwithstanding any provision of law, the use of a vessel to tow a whale taken in a traditional subsistence whale hunt permitted by Federal law and conducted in waters off the coast of Alaska is authorized, if such towing is performed upon a request for emergency assistance made by a subsistence whale hunting organization formally recognized by an agency of the United States Government, or made by a member of such an organization, to prevent the loss of a whale.”



