§ 719i. Supplemental enforcement authority(a) Compliance order or civil actionIn addition to remedies available under other applicable provisions of law, whenever any Federal officer or agency determines that any person is in violation of any applicable provision of law administered or enforceable by such officer or agency or any rule, regulation, or order under such provision, including any term or condition of any certificate, right-of-way, permit, lease, or other authorization, issued or granted by such officer or agency, such officer or agency may—(1) issue a compliance order requiring such person to comply with such provision or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder, or

(2) bring a civil action in accordance with subsection (c) of this section.


(b) Specificity of compliance orderAny order issued under subsection (a) of this section shall state with reasonable specificity the nature of the violation and a time of compliance, not to exceed 30 days, which the officer or agency, as the case may be, determines is reasonable, taking into account the seriousness of the violation and any good faith efforts to comply with applicable requirements.


(c) Appropriate relief and jurisdiction of civil actionUpon a request of such officer or agency, as the case may be, the Attorney General may commence a civil action for appropriate relief, including a permanent or temporary injunction or a civil penalty not to exceed $25,000 per day for violations of the compliance order issued under subsection (a) of this section. Any action under this subsection may be brought in any district court of the United States for the district in which the defendant is located, resides, or is doing business, and such court shall have jurisdiction to restrain such violation, require compliance, or impose such penalty or give ancillary relief.


(Pub. L. 94–586, § 11, Oct. 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 2914.)


Transfer of Functions
Enforcement functions authorized by, and supplemental enforcement authority created by this chapter with respect to pre-construction, construction, and initial operation of transportation system for Canadian and Alaskan natural gas transferred to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, until first anniversary of date of initial operation of Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, see Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1979, §§ 102(h)(1), 203(a), 44 F.R. 33663, 33666, 93 Stat. 1373, 1376, effective July 1, 1979, set out under section 719e of this title. Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System abolished and functions and authority vested in Inspector transferred to Secretary of Energy by section 3012(b) of Pub. L. 102–486, set out as an Abolition of Office of Federal Inspector note under section 719e of this title. Functions and authority vested in Secretary of Energy subsequently transferred to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects by section 720d(f) of this title.


