§ 3718. President’s Council on Innovation and Competitiveness(a) In generalThe President shall establish a President’s Council on Innovation and Competitiveness.


(b) DutiesThe duties of the Council shall include—(1) monitoring implementation of public laws and initiatives for promoting innovation, including policies related to research funding, taxation, immigration, trade, and education that are proposed in this Act or in any other Act;

(2) providing advice to the President with respect to global trends in competitiveness and innovation and allocation of Federal resources in education, job training, and technology research and development considering such global trends in competitiveness and innovation;

(3) in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, developing a process for using metrics to assess the impact of existing and proposed policies and rules that affect innovation capabilities in the United States;

(4) identifying opportunities and making recommendations for the heads of executive agencies to improve innovation, monitoring, and reporting on the implementation of such recommendations;

(5) developing metrics for measuring the progress of the Federal Government with respect to improving conditions for innovation, including through talent development, investment, and infrastructure improvements; and

(6) submitting to the President and Congress an annual report on such progress.


(c) Membership and coordination(1) MembershipThe Council shall be composed of the Secretary or head of each of the following:(A) The Department of Commerce.

(B) The Department of Defense.

(C) The Department of Education.

(D) The Department of Energy.

(E) The Department of Health and Human Services.

(F) The Department of Homeland Security.

(G) The Department of Labor.

(H) The Department of the Treasury.

(I) The National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

(J) The Securities and Exchange Commission.

(K) The National Science Foundation.

(L) The Office of the United States Trade Representative.

(M) The Office of Management and Budget.

(N) The Office of Science and Technology Policy.

(O) The Environmental Protection Agency.

(P) The Small Business Administration.

(Q) Any other department or agency designated by the President.


(2) ChairpersonThe Secretary of Commerce shall serve as Chairperson of the Council.


(3) CoordinationThe Chairperson of the Council shall ensure appropriate coordination between the Council and the National Economic Council, the National Security Council, and the National Science and Technology Council.


(4) MeetingsThe Council shall meet on a semi-annual basis at the call of the Chairperson and the initial meeting of the Council shall occur not later than 6 months after August 9, 2007.



(d) Development of innovation agenda(1) In generalThe Council shall develop a comprehensive agenda for strengthening the innovation and competitiveness capabilities of the Federal Government, State governments, academia, and the private sector in the United States.


(2) ContentsThe comprehensive agenda required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:(A) An assessment of current strengths and weaknesses of the United States investment in research and development.

(B) Recommendations for addressing weaknesses and maintaining the United States as a world leader in research and development and technological innovation, including strategies for increasing the participation of individuals identified in section 1885a or 1885b of title 42 in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics fields.

(C) Recommendations for strengthening the innovation and competitiveness capabilities of the Federal Government, State governments, academia, and the private sector in the United States.


(3) Advisors(A) RecommendationNot later than 30 days after August 9, 2007, the National Academy of Sciences, in consultation with the National Academy of Engineering, the Institute of Medicine, and the National Research Council, shall develop and submit to the President a list of 50 individuals that are recommended to serve as advisors to the Council during the development of the comprehensive agenda required by paragraph (1). The list of advisors shall include appropriate representatives from the following:(i) The private sector of the economy.

(ii) Labor.

(iii) Various fields including information technology, energy, engineering, high-technology manufacturing, health care, and education.

(iv) Scientific organizations.

(v) Academic organizations and other nongovernmental organizations working in the area of science or technology.

(vi) Nongovernmental organizations, such as professional organizations, that represent individuals identified in section 1885a or 1885b of title 42 in the areas of science, engineering, technology, and mathematics.


(B) DesignationNot later than 30 days after the date that the National Academy of Sciences submits the list of recommended individuals to serve as advisors, the President shall designate 50 individuals to serve as advisors to the Council.


(C) Requirement to consultThe Council shall develop the comprehensive agenda required by paragraph (1) in consultation with the advisors.



(4) Initial submission and updates(A) Initial submissionNot later than 1 year after August 9, 2007, the Council shall submit to Congress and the President the comprehensive agenda required by paragraph (1).


(B) UpdatesAt least once every 2 years, the Council shall update the comprehensive agenda required by paragraph (1) and submit each such update to Congress and the President.




(e) Optional assignmentNotwithstanding subsection (a) and paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (c), the President may designate an existing council to carry out the requirements of this section.


(Pub. L. 110–69, title I, § 1006, Aug. 9, 2007, 121 Stat. 578.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Act, also known as the America COMPETES Act, and not as part of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 which comprises this chapter.


Designation of the Committee on Technology of the National Science and Technology Council To Carry Out Certain Requirements of the America COMPETES Act
Memorandum of the President of the United States, Apr. 10, 2008, 73 F.R. 20523, provided:
Memorandum for the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy
By the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 1006(e) of the America COMPETES Act (Public Law 110–69) (the “Act”), I hereby designate the Committee on Technology of the National Science and Technology Council to carry out the responsibilities assigned to the Council on Innovation and Competitiveness in section 1006 of the Act.
The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.

George W. Bush.



