“SEC. 210. FISHERY COOPERATIVE LIMITATIONS.“(a) Public Notice.—(1) Any contract implementing a fishery cooperative under section 1 of the Act of June 25, 1934 (15 U.S.C. 521) in the directed pollock fishery and any material modifications to any such contract shall be filed not less than 30 days prior to the start of fishing under the contract with the North Pacific Council and with the Secretary, together with a copy of a letter from a party to the contract requesting a business review letter on the fishery cooperative from the Department of Justice and any response to such request. Notwithstanding section 402 of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1881a) or any other provision of law, but taking into account the interest of parties to any such contract in protecting the confidentiality of proprietary information, the North Pacific Council and Secretary shall—“(A) make available to the public such information about the contract, contract modifications, or fishery cooperative the North Pacific Council and Secretary deem appropriate, which at a minimum shall include a list of the parties to the contract, a list of the vessels involved, and the amount of pollock and other fish to be harvested by each party to such contract; and

“(B) make available to the public in such manner as the North Pacific Council and Secretary deem appropriate information about the harvest by vessels under a fishery cooperative of all species (including bycatch) in the directed pollock fishery on a vessel-by-vessel basis.



“(b) Catcher Vessels Onshore.—“(1) Catcher vessel cooperatives.—Effective January 1, 2000, upon the filing of a contract implementing a fishery cooperative under subsection (a) which—“(A) is signed by the owners of 80 percent or more of the qualified catcher vessels that delivered pollock for processing by a shoreside processor in the directed pollock fishery in the year prior to the year in which the fishery cooperative will be in effect; and

“(B) specifies, except as provided in paragraph (6), that such catcher vessels will deliver pollock in the directed pollock fishery only to such shoreside processor during the year in which the fishery cooperative will be in effect and that such shoreside processor has agreed to process such pollock,  the Secretary shall allow only such catcher vessels (and catcher vessels whose owners voluntarily participate pursuant to paragraph (2)) to harvest the aggregate percentage of the directed fishing allowance under section 206(b)(1) in the year in which the fishery cooperative will be in effect that is equivalent to the aggregate total amount of pollock harvested by such catcher vessels (and by such catcher vessels whose owners voluntarily participate pursuant to paragraph (2)) in the directed pollock fishery for processing by the inshore component during 1995, 1996, and 1997 relative to the aggregate total amount of pollock harvested in the directed pollock fishery for processing by the inshore component during such years and shall prevent such catcher vessels (and catcher vessels whose owners voluntarily participate pursuant to paragraph (2)) from harvesting in aggregate in excess of such percentage of such directed fishing allowance.



“(2) Voluntary participation.—Any contract implementing a fishery cooperative under paragraph (1) must allow the owners of other qualified catcher vessels to enter into such contract after it is filed and before the calender year in which fishing will begin under the same terms and conditions as the owners of the qualified catcher vessels who entered into such contract upon filing.

“(3) Qualified catcher vessel.—For the purposes of this subsection, a catcher vessel shall be considered a ‘qualified catcher vessel’ if, during the year prior to the year in which the fishery cooperative will be in effect, it delivered more pollock to the shoreside processor to which it will deliver pollock under the fishery cooperative in paragraph (1) than to any other shoreside processor.

“(4) Consideration of certain vessels.—Any contract implementing a fishery cooperative under paragraph (1) which has been entered into by the owner of a qualified catcher vessel eligible under section 208(a) that harvested pollock for processing by catcher/processors or motherships in the directed pollock fishery during 1995, 1996, and 1997 shall, to the extent practicable, provide fair and equitable terms and conditions for the owner of such qualified catcher vessel.

“(5) Open access.—A catcher vessel eligible under section 208(a) the catch history of which has not been attributed to a fishery cooperative under paragraph (1) may be used to deliver pollock harvested by such vessel from the directed fishing allowance under section 206(b)(1) (other than pollock reserved under paragraph (1) for a fishery cooperative) to any of the shoreside processors eligible under section 208(f). A catcher vessel eligible under section 208(a) the catch history of which has been attributed to a fishery cooperative under paragraph (1) during any calendar year may not harvest any pollock apportioned under section 206(b)(1) in such calendar year other than the pollock reserved under paragraph (1) for such fishery cooperative.

“(6) Transfer of cooperative harvest.—A contract implementing a fishery cooperative under paragraph (1) may, notwithstanding the other provisions of this subsection, provide for up to 10 percent of the pollock harvested under such cooperative to be processed by a shoreside processor eligible under section 208(f) other than the shoreside processor to which pollock will be delivered under paragraph (1).

“(7) Fishery cooperative exit provisions.—“(A) Fishing allowance determination.—For purposes of determining the aggregate percentage of directed fishing allowances under paragraph (1), when a catcher vessel is removed from the directed pollock fishery, the fishery allowance for pollock for the vessel being removed—“(i) shall be based on the catch history determination for the vessel made pursuant to section 679.62 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the date of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2010 [Oct. 15, 2010]; and

“(ii) shall be assigned, for all purposes under this title, in the manner specified by the owner of the vessel being removed to any other catcher vessel or among other catcher vessels participating in the fishery cooperative if such vessel or vessels remain in the fishery cooperative for at least one year after the date on which the vessel being removed leaves the directed pollock fishery.


“(B) Eligibility for fishery endorsement.—Except as provided in subparagraph (C), a vessel that is removed pursuant to this paragraph shall be permanently ineligible for a fishery endorsement, and any claim (including relating to catch history) associated with such vessel that could qualify any owner of such vessel for any permit to participate in any fishery within the exclusive economic zone of the United States shall be extinguished, unless such removed vessel is thereafter designated to replace a vessel to be removed pursuant to this paragraph.

“(C) Limitations on statutory construction.—Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed—“(i) to make the vessels AJ (United States official number 905625), DONA MARTITA (United States official number 651751), NORDIC EXPLORER (United States official number 678234), and PROVIDIAN (United States official number 1062183) ineligible for a fishery endorsement or any permit necessary to participate in any fishery under the authority of the New England Fishery Management Council or the Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council established, respectively, under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 302(a)(1) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act [16 U.S.C. 1852(a)(1)]; or

“(ii) to allow the vessels referred to in clause (i) to participate in any fishery under the authority of the Councils referred to in clause (i) in any manner that is not consistent with the fishery management plan for the fishery developed by the Councils under section 303 of the Magnuson-Stevens Act [16 U.S.C. 1853].




“(c) Catcher Vessels to Catcher/Processors.—Effective January 1, 1999, not less than 8.5 percent of the directed fishing allowance under section 206(b)(2) shall be available for harvest only by the catcher vessels eligible under section 208(b). The owners of such catcher vessels may participate in a fishery cooperative with the owners of the catcher/processors eligible under paragraphs (1) through (20) of the section 208(e). The owners of such catcher vessels may participate in a fishery cooperative that will be in effect during 1999 only if the contract implementing such cooperative establishes penalties to prevent such vessels from exceeding in 1999 the traditional levels harvested by such vessels in all other fisheries in the exclusive economic zone of the United States.

“(d) Catcher Vessels to Motherships.—“(1) Processing.—Effective January 1, 2000, the authority in section 1 of the Act of June 25, 1934 (48 Stat. 1213 and 1214; 15 U.S.C. 521 et seq.) shall extend to processing by motherships eligible under section 208(d) solely for the purposes of forming or participating in a fishery cooperative in the directed pollock fishery upon the filing of a contract to implement a fishery cooperative under subsection (a) which has been entered into by the owners of 80 percent or more of the catcher vessels eligible under section 208(c) for the duration of such contract, provided that such owners agree to the terms of the fishery cooperative involving processing by the motherships.

“(2) Voluntary participation.—Any contract implementing a fishery cooperative described in paragraph (1) must allow the owners of any other catcher vessels eligible under section 208(c) to enter such contract after it is filed and before the calendar year in which fishing will begin under the same terms and conditions as the owners of the catcher vessels who entered into such contract upon filing.


“(e) Excessive Shares.—“(1) Harvesting.—No particular individual, corporation, or other entity may harvest, through a fishery cooperative or otherwise, a total of more than 17.5 percent of the pollock available to be harvested in the directed pollock fishery.

“(2) Processing.—Under the authority of section 301(a)(4) of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1851(a)(4)), the North Pacific Council is directed to recommend for approval by the Secretary conservation and management measures to prevent any particular individual or entity from processing an excessive share of the pollock available to be harvested in the directed pollock fishery. In the event the North Pacific Council recommends and the Secretary approves an excessive processing share that is lower than 17.5 percent, any individual or entity that previously processed a percentage greater than such share shall be allowed to continue to process such percentage, except that their percentage may not exceed 17.5 percent (excluding pollock processed by catcher/processors that was harvested in the directed pollock fishery by catcher vessels eligible under 208(b)) and shall be reduced if their percentage decreases, until their percentage is below such share. In recommending the excessive processing share, the North Pacific Council shall consider the need of catcher vessels in the directed pollock fishery to have competitive buyers for the pollock harvested by such vessels.

“(3) Review by maritime administration.—At the request of the North Pacific Council or the Secretary, any individual or entity believed by such Council or the Secretary to have exceeded the percentage in either paragraph (1) or (2) shall submit such information to the Administrator of the Maritime Administration as the Administrator deems appropriate to allow the Administrator to determine whether such individual or entity has exceeded either such percentage. The Administrator shall make a finding as soon as practicable upon such request and shall submit such finding to the North Pacific Council and the Secretary. For the purposes of this subsection, any entity in which 10 percent or more of the interest is owned or controlled by another individual or entity shall be considered to be the same entity as the other individual or entity.


“(f) Landing Tax Jurisdiction.—Any contract filed under subsection (a) shall include a contract clause under which the parties to the contract agree to make payments to the State of Alaska for any pollock harvested in the directed pollock fishery which is not landed in the State of Alaska, in amounts which would otherwise accrue had the pollock been landed in the State of Alaska subject to any landing taxes established under Alaska law. Failure to include such a contract clause or for such amounts to be paid shall result in a revocation of the authority to form fishery cooperatives under section 1 of the Act of June 25, 1934 (15 U.S.C. 521 et seq.).

“(g) Penalties.—The violation of any of the requirements of this subtitle or any regulation or permit issued pursuant to this subtitle shall be considered the commission of an act prohibited by section 307 of the Magnuson-Stevens Act (16 U.S.C. 1857), and sections 308, 309, 310, and 311 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 1858, 1859, 1860, and 1861) shall apply to any such violation in the same manner as to the commission of an act prohibited by section 307 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 1857). In addition to the civil penalties and permit sanctions applicable to prohibited acts under section 308 of such Act (16 U.S.C. 1858), any person who is found by the Secretary, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with section 554 of title 5, United States Code, to have violated a requirement of this section shall be subject to the forfeiture to the Secretary of Commerce of any fish harvested or processed during the commission of such act.

