§ 2602. American National Red Cross: cooperation and assistance(a) Whenever the President finds it necessary, he may accept the cooperation and assistance of the American National Red Cross, and employ it under the armed forces under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.

(b) Personnel of the American National Red Cross who are performing duties in connection with its cooperation and assistance under subsection (a) may be furnished—(1) transportation, at the expense of the United States, while traveling to and from, and while performing, those duties, in the same manner as civilian employees of the armed forces;

(2) meals and quarters, at their expense or at the expense of the American National Red Cross, except that where civilian employees of the armed forces are quartered without charge, employees of the American National Red Cross may also be quartered without charge; and

(3) available office space, warehousing, wharfage, and means of communication, without charge.


(c) No fee may be charged for a passport issued to an employee of the American National Red Cross for travel outside the United States to assume or perform duties under this section.

(d) Supplies of the American National Red Cross, including gifts for the use of the armed forces, may be transported at the expense of the United States, if it is determined under regulations prescribed under subsection (a) that they are necessary to the cooperation and assistance accepted under this section.

(e) For the purposes of this section, employees of the American National Red Cross may not be considered as employees of the United States.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 145.)











Historical and Revision Notes


Revised sectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


2602(a)2602(b)2602(c)36:17.36:17a (less provisos).36:17a (1st proviso).July 17, 1953, ch. 222, §§ 1, 2, 7, 67 Stat. 178, 179.
2602(d)36:17a (last proviso).
2602(e)36:17b.


In subsection (a), the words “finds it necessary” are substituted for the words “shall find the * * * to be necessary”. The words “cooperation and assistance” are substituted for the words “cooperation and use * * * assistance * * * the same”. The words “under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of Defense” are substituted for 36:17 (last sentence). The words “tendered by the said Red Cross” are omitted as surplusage.
In subsection (b), the introductory clause is substituted for 36:17a (1st 33 words). In clause (1), the word “expense” is substituted for the words “cost and charge”. The words “traveling to and from, and while performing, those duties” are substituted for the words “proceeding to their place of duty, while serving thereat, and while returning therefrom”. In clause (2), the words “at their expense or at the expense of” are substituted for the words “providing the cost thereof is borne by such personnel or by”. The words “quartered without charge” are substituted for the words “furnished quarters on the same basis without cost”. In clause (3), the words “when such facilities are” are omitted as surplusage.
In subsection (c), the words “for travel outside the United States to assume or perform” are substituted for the words “so serving or proceeding abroad to enter upon such service”.
In subsection (d), the word “equipment” is omitted as covered by the word “supplies”. The words “gifts for the use of” are substituted for the words “Red Cross supplies that may be tendered as a gift and accepted for use by”. The word “expense” is substituted for the words “cost and charge”. The words “rules and” are omitted as surplusage.
In subsection (e), the words “Federal Government of” are omitted as surplusage.

Report on Assistance to Red Cross for Emergency Communications Services for Members of Armed Forces and FamiliesPub. L. 103–337, div. A, title III, § 383(b), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2740, provided that, not later than Nov. 30 in each of 1994, 1995, and 1996, the Secretary of Defense was to submit to Congress a report on whether it was necessary for the Department of Defense to support the emergency communications services of the American National Red Cross in order to provide such services for members of the Armed Forces and their families.


