§ 1724. Conservation centers and program support(a) Establishment and use(1) In generalThe Secretary may establish and use conservation centers owned and operated by the Secretary for—(A) use by the Public Lands Corps; and

(B) the conduct of appropriate conservation projects under this subchapter.


(2) Assistance for conservation centersThe Secretary may provide to a conservation center established under paragraph (1) any services, facilities, equipment, and supplies that the Secretary determines to be necessary for the conservation center.


(3) Standards for conservation centersThe Secretary shall—(A) establish basic standards of health, nutrition, sanitation, and safety for all conservation centers established under paragraph (1); and

(B) ensure that the standards established under subparagraph (A) are enforced.


(4) ManagementAs the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the Secretary may enter into a contract or other appropriate arrangement with a State or local government agency or private organization to provide for the management of a conservation center.



(b) Logistical supportThe Secretary may make arrangements with the Secretary of Defense to have logistical support provided by the Armed Forces to the Corps and any conservation center established under this section, where feasible. Logistical support may include the provision of temporary tent shelters where needed, transportation, and residential supervision.


(c) Use of military installationsThe Secretary may make arrangements with the Secretary of Defense to identify military installations and other facilities of the Department of Defense and, in consultation with the adjutant generals of the State National Guards, National Guard facilities that may be used, in whole or in part, by the Corps for training or housing Corps participants.


(d) AssistanceThe Secretary may provide any services, facilities, equipment, supplies, technical assistance, oversight, monitoring, or evaluations that are appropriate to carry out this subchapter.


(Pub. L. 91–378, title II, § 205, as added Pub. L. 103–82, title I, § 105(6), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 851; amended Pub. L. 109–154, § 2(d), (g)(2), Dec. 30, 2005, 119 Stat. 2891, 2893.)

Amendments2005—Pub. L. 109–154, § 2(d)(1), inserted “and program support” after “Conservation centers” in section catchline.
Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 109–154, § 2(d)(2), added subsec. (a) and struck out heading and text of former subsec. (a). Text read as follows: “The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture are each authorized to provide such quarters, board, medical care, transportation, and other services, facilities, supplies, and equipment as such Secretary deems necessary in connection with the Public Lands Corps and appropriate conservation projects carried out under this subchapter and to establish and use conservation centers owned and operated by such Secretary for purposes of the Corps and such projects. The Secretaries shall establish basic standards of health, nutrition, sanitation, and safety for all conservation centers established under this section and shall assure that such standards are enforced. Where necessary or appropriate, the Secretaries may enter into contracts and other appropriate arrangements with State and local government agencies and private organizations for the management of such conservation centers.”
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 109–154, § 2(g)(2)(A), substituted “Secretary may” for “Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 109–154, § 2(g)(2)(B), substituted “Secretary may” for “Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may”.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 109–154, § 2(d)(3), added subsec. (d).


