§ 670i. Public land management area stamps for hunting, trapping, and fishing on public lands subject to programs(a) Agreements to require stampsAny State agency may agree with the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture (or with the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture, as the case may be, if within the State concerned all conservation and rehabilitation programs under this subchapter will be implemented by him) that no individual will be permitted to hunt, trap, or fish on any public land within the State which is subject to a conservation and rehabilitation program implemented under this subchapter unless at the time such individual is engaged in such activity he has on his person a valid public land management area stamp issued pursuant to this section.


(b) Conditions for agreementsAny agreement made pursuant to subsection (a) of this section to require the issuance of public land management area stamps shall be subject to the following conditions:(1) Such stamps shall be issued, sold, and the fees therefor collected, by the State agency or by the authorized agents of such agency.

(2) Notice of the requirement to possess such stamps shall be displayed prominently in all places where State hunting, trapping, or fishing licenses are sold. To the maximum extent practicable, the sale of such stamps shall be combined with the sale of such State hunting, trapping, and fishing licenses.

(3) Except for expenses incurred in the printing, issuing, or selling of such stamps, the fees collected for such stamps by the State agency shall be utilized in carrying out conservation and rehabilitation programs implemented under this subchapter in the State concerned. Such fees may be used by the State agency to acquire lands or interests therein from willing sellers or donors to provide public access to program lands that have no existing public access for enhancement of outdoor recreation and wildlife conservation: Provided, That the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior maintain such access, or ensure that maintenance is provided for such access, through or to lands within their respective jurisdiction.

(4) The purchase of any such stamp shall entitle the purchaser thereof to hunt, trap, and fish on any public land within such State which is the subject of a conservation or rehabilitation program implemented under this subchapter except to the extent that the public use of such land is limited pursuant to a comprehensive plan or cooperative agreement; but the purchase of any such stamp shall not be construed as (A) eliminating the requirement for the purchase of a migratory bird hunting stamp as set forth in section 718a of this title, or (B) relieving the purchaser from compliance with any applicable State game and fish laws and regulations.

(5) The amount of the fee to be charged for such stamps, the age at which the individual is required to acquire such a stamp, and the expiration date for such stamps shall be mutually agreed upon by the State agency and the Secretary or Secretaries concerned; except that each such stamp shall be void not later than one year after the date of issuance.

(6) Each such stamp must be validated by the purchaser thereof by signing his name across the face of the stamp.

(7) Any individual to whom a stamp is sold pursuant to this section shall upon request exhibit such stamp for inspection to any officer or employee of the Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture, or to any other person who is authorized to enforce section 670j(a) of this title.


(Pub. L. 86–797, title II, § 203, as added Pub. L. 93–452, § 2, Oct. 18, 1974, 88 Stat. 1371; amended Pub. L. 100–653, title II, § 201, Nov. 14, 1988, 102 Stat. 3826; Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title III, § 312(b)(9), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1354.)

Amendments2011—Pub. L. 112–81 inserted section catchline and headings for subsecs. (a) and (b) and realigned margins of subsec. (b)(3).
1988—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 100–653 amended par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (3) read as follows: “Except for expenses incurred in the printing, issuing, or selling of such stamps, the fees collected for such stamps by the State agency shall be utilized in carrying out conservation and rehabilitation programs implemented under this subchapter in the State concerned and for no other purpose. If such programs are implemented by both the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture in the State, the Secretaries shall mutually agree, on such basis as they deem reasonable, on the proportion of such fees that shall be applied by the State agency to their respective programs.”


