§ 460aaa–3. Acquisition(a) General authoritySubject to the provisions of section 460aaa–2(b)(8) of this title and subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary is authorized and directed to acquire by purchase, gift, exchange, or otherwise, lands, waters, structures, or interests therein, including scenic or other easements, within the boundaries of the national recreation area to further the purposes of this subchapter: Provided, That the Secretary may not acquire any privately owned lands within the national recreation area other than with the consent of the owner so long as the owner agrees to the restrictions contained in subsection (b)(1) of this section and grants the Secretary a right of first refusal as provided in subsection (b)(2) of this section. The Secretary also is authorized and directed to acquire lands or structures by such means on the mainland to the extent necessary for access to and administrative facilities for the national recreation area. In acquiring lands or structures under this subsection, the Secretary is directed to give prompt and careful consideration to any offer to sell land or structures made by an individual, organization, or any legal entity owning property within the boundaries of the national recreation area.


(b) Private lands(1) An owner of unimproved real property within the national recreation area may construct recreational residences that are architecturally compatible with other structures within the national recreation area, as described by the management plan developed pursuant to section 460aaa–6 of this title.

(2) Any privately owned lands, interests in lands, or structures within the national recreation area shall not be disposed of by donation, exchange, sale, or other conveyance without first being offered at no more than fair market value to the Secretary. The Secretary shall be given a period of 120 days to accept an offer and, after such offer is accepted, a period of 45 days after the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the offer was accepted to acquire such lands, interests in lands, or structures. No such lands, interests in lands, or structures shall be sold or conveyed at a price below the price at which they have been offered for sale to the Secretary, and if such lands, interest in lands, or structures are re­offered for sale or conveyance they shall first be reoffered to the Secretary, except that this subsection shall not apply to a change in ownership of a property within the immediate family of the owner of record on January 1, 1989. For the purposes of this subsection, the term “immediate family” means, with respect to any such owner of record, the spouse, siblings, children (whether natural or adopted), stepchildren, and lineal descendants of that owner.


(Pub. L. 101–292, § 4, May 17, 1990, 104 Stat. 187.)
