“SEC. 103. IMPLEMENTING ACTIONS IN ANTICIPATION OF ENTRY INTO FORCE AND INITIAL REGULATIONS.“(a) Implementing Actions.—“(1) Proclamation authority.—After the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 3, 2004]—“(A) the President may proclaim such actions, and

“(B) other appropriate officers of the United States Government may issue such regulations,


as may be necessary to ensure that any provision of this Act, or amendment made by this Act, that takes effect on the date the Agreement enters into force [Jan. 1, 2005] is appropriately implemented on such date, but no such proclamation or regulation may have an effective date earlier than the date on which the Agreement enters into force.

“(2) Effective date of certain proclaimed actions.—Any action proclaimed by the President under the authority of this Act that is not subject to the consultation and layover provisions under section 104, may not take effect before the 15th day after the date on which the text of the proclamation is published in the Federal Register.

“(3) Waiver of 15-day restriction.—The 15-day restriction in paragraph (2) on the taking effect of proclaimed actions is waived to the extent that the application of such restriction would prevent the taking effect on the date the Agreement enters into force [Jan. 1, 2005] of any action proclaimed under this section.


“(b) Initial Regulations.—Initial regulations necessary or appropriate to carry out the actions required by or authorized under this Act or proposed in the statement of administrative action submitted under section 101(a)(2) to implement the Agreement shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be issued within 1 year after the date on which the Agreement enters into force. In the case of any implementing action that takes effect on a date after the date on which the Agreement enters into force [Jan. 1, 2005], initial regulations to carry out that action shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be issued within 1 year after such effective date.

