§ 460nn–3. Administration(a) ObjectivesSubject to valid existing rights, the Robert T. Stafford White Rocks National Recreation Area designated by this subchapter shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with the findings and purpose of this subchapter and the laws, rules, and regulations applicable to the national forests in a manner compatible with the following objectives:(1) the continuation of existing primitive and semiprimitive recreational use in a natural environment;

(2) utilization of natural resources shall be permitted only if consistent with the findings and purposes in this subchapter;

(3) preservation and protection of forest and aquatic habitat for fish and wildlife; and

(4) protection and conservation of special areas having uncommon or outstanding wilderness, biological, geological, recreational, cultural, historical or archeological, and scientific, or other values contributing to the public benefit.


(b) Mineral leasing lawsNotwithstanding any other provision of law, federally-owned lands within the Robert T. Stafford White Rocks National Recreation Area as designated by this subchapter are hereby withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the mineral leasing laws, including all laws pertaining to geothermal leasing, and all amendments thereto.


(c) Hunting, fishing, and trappingThe Secretary shall permit hunting, fishing, and trapping on lands and waters under the Secretary’s jurisdiction within the boundaries of the national recreation area designated by this subchapter in accordance with applicable laws of the United States and the State of Vermont.


(d) Comprehensive management planWithin eighteen months after June 19, 1984, the Secretary shall develop and submit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture of the United States House of Representatives and to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the United States Senate a comprehensive management plan for the national recreation area designated by this subchapter.


(e) Public participation in development of management planIn conducting the reviews and preparing the comprehensive management plan required by subsection (d) of this section, the Secretary shall provide for full public participation, shall consider the views of all interested agencies, organizations, and individuals, and shall particularly emphasize the values enumerated in section 460nn(a)(4) of this title.


(Pub. L. 98–322, title II, § 204, June 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 257; Pub. L. 110–1, § 1(b), Jan. 17, 2007, 121 Stat. 3.)


Change of Name
“Robert T. Stafford White Rocks National Recreation Area” substituted in subsecs. (a) and (b) for “White Rocks National Recreation Area” pursuant to section 1(b) of Pub. L. 110–1, set out as a note under section 460nn–1 of this title.
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.


