§ 167a. Exchange of lands and other property(a) The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to accept title to any non-Federal lands, interests in lands, buildings, or other property, real or personal, within the authorized boundaries of the Glacier National Park, as now or after August 8, 1946, established, when the acquisition by exchange of such property would, in his judgment, be in the best interests of the United States. In exchange for the non-Federal property so to be acquired, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to convey to the grantors of such property, or to their nominees, any federally owned lands, interests in lands, buildings, or other property, real or personal, within the authorized boundaries of the Glacier National Park, located in the State of Montana and administered by the National Park Service, which are of approximately equal value, as determined by the Secretary, to the property being acquired. In order to facilitate the making of such exchanges, the Secretary of the Interior may enter into agreements for the reservation in conveyances to the United States, or for the grant in conveyances from the United States, of such estates for years, life estates, or other interests as may be consistent, in his judgment, with the accomplishment of the purposes of this section, but all such limitations shall be considered in determining the equality of the interests to be exchanged.

(b) Any property acquired pursuant to this section shall, upon acceptance of title thereto, become a part of the Glacier National Park, and shall be subject to all laws applicable to such area. The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to issue such regulations as he deems necessary for carrying out the purposes of this section.

(Aug. 8, 1946, ch. 915, §§ 1, 2, 60 Stat. 949.)

Codification
Subsecs. (a) and (b) of this section constitute sections 1 and 2, respectively, of act Aug. 8, 1946.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, 64 Stat. 1262, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


