“SEC. 13. REPORTING BARRED PERSONS SELLING INSURANCE OR SECURITIES.“(a) Establishment.—The Secretary of Defense shall maintain a list of the name, address, and other appropriate information relating to persons engaged in the business of securities or insurance that have been barred or otherwise limited in any manner that is not generally applicable to all such type of persons, from any or all military installations of the United States, or that have engaged in any transaction that is prohibited by this Act.

“(b) Notice and Access.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that—“(1) the appropriate Federal and State agencies responsible for securities and insurance regulation are promptly notified upon the inclusion in or removal from the list required by subsection (a) of a person under the jurisdiction of one or more of such agencies; and

“(2) the list is kept current and easily accessible—“(A) for use by such agencies; and

“(B) for purposes of enforcing or considering any such bar or limitation by the appropriate Federal personnel, including commanders of military installations.



“(c) Regulations.—“(1) In general.—The Secretary of Defense shall issue regulations in accordance with this subsection to provide for the establishment and maintenance of the list required by this section, including appropriate due process considerations.

“(2) Timing.—“(A) Proposed regulations.—Not later than the expiration of the 60-day period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 29, 2006], the Secretary of Defense shall prepare and submit to the appropriate Committees of Congress a copy of the regulations required by this subsection that are proposed to be published for comment. The Secretary may not publish such regulations for comment in the Federal Register until the expiration of the 15-day period beginning on the date of such submission to the appropriate Committees of Congress.

“(B) Final regulations.—Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate Committees of Congress a copy of the regulations under this section to be published in final form.

“(C) Effective date.—Final regulations under this paragraph shall become effective 30 days after the date of their submission to the appropriate Committees of Congress under subparagraph (B).



“(d) Definition.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘appropriate Committees of Congress’ means—“(1) the Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and

“(2) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.


