§ 1844. Administration(a) Registration of bank holding companyWithin one hundred and eighty days after May 9, 1956, or within one hundred and eighty days after becoming a bank holding company, whichever is later, each bank holding company shall register with the Board on forms prescribed by the Board, which shall include such information with respect to the financial condition and operations, management, and intercompany relationships of the bank holding company and its subsidiaries, and related matters, as the Board may deem necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this chapter. The Board may, in its discretion, extend the time within which a bank holding company shall register and file the requisite information. A declaration filed in accordance with section 1843(l)(1)(C) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title shall satisfy the requirements of this subsection with regard to the registration of a bank holding company but not any requirement to file an application to acquire a bank pursuant to section 1842 of this title.


(b) Regulations and ordersThe Board is authorized to issue such regulations and orders, including regulations and orders relating to the capital requirements for bank holding companies, as may be necessary to enable it to administer and carry out the purposes of this chapter and prevent evasions thereof. In establishing capital regulations pursuant to this subsection, the Board shall seek to make such requirements countercyclical, so that the amount of capital required to be maintained by a company increases in times of economic expansion and decreases in times of economic contraction, consistent with the safety and soundness of the company.


(c) Reports and examinations(1) Reports(A) In generalThe Board, from time to time, may require a bank holding company and any subsidiary of such company to submit reports under oath to keep the Board informed as to—(i) its financial condition, systems for monitoring and controlling financial and operating risks, and transactions with depository institution subsidiaries of the bank holding company; and

(ii) compliance by the bank holding company or subsidiary with—(I) this chapter;

(II) Federal laws that the Board has specific jurisdiction to enforce against the company or subsidiary; and

(III) other than in the case of an insured depository institution or functionally regulated subsidiary, any other applicable provision of Federal law.



(B) Use of existing reports and other supervisory informationThe Board shall, to the fullest extent possible, use—(i) reports and other supervisory information that the bank holding company or any subsidiary thereof has been required to provide to other Federal or State regulatory agencies;

(ii) externally audited financial statements of the bank holding company or subsidiary;

(iii) information otherwise available from Federal or State regulatory agencies; and

(iv) information that is otherwise required to be reported publicly.


(C) AvailabilityUpon the request of the Board, the bank holding company or a subsidiary of the bank holding company shall promptly provide to the Board any information described in clauses (i) through (iii) of subparagraph (B).



(2) Examinations(A) In generalSubject to subtitle B of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 [12 U.S.C. 5511 et seq.], the Board may make examinations of a bank holding company and each subsidiary of a bank holding company in order to—(i) inform the Board of—(I) the nature of the operations and financial condition of the bank holding company and the subsidiary;

(II) the financial, operational, and other risks within the bank holding company system that may pose a threat to—(aa) the safety and soundness of the bank holding company or of any depository institution subsidiary of the bank holding company; or

(bb) the stability of the financial system of the United States; and


(III) the systems of the bank holding company for monitoring and controlling the risks described in subclause (II); and


(ii) monitor the compliance of the bank holding company and the subsidiary with—(I) this chapter;

(II) Federal laws that the Board has specific jurisdiction to enforce against the company or subsidiary; and

(III) other than in the case of an insured depository institution or functionally regulated subsidiary, any other applicable provisions of Federal law.



(B) Use of reports to reduce examinationsFor purposes of this paragraph, the Board shall, to the fullest extent possible, rely on—(i) examination reports made by other Federal or State regulatory agencies relating to a bank holding company and any subsidiary of a bank holding company; and

(ii) the reports and other information required under paragraph (1).


(C) Coordination with other regulatorsThe Board shall—(i) provide reasonable notice to, and consult with, the appropriate Federal banking agency, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or State regulatory agency, as appropriate, for a subsidiary that is a depository institution or a functionally regulated subsidiary of a bank holding company before commencing an examination of the subsidiary under this section; and

(ii) to the fullest extent possible, avoid duplication of examination activities, reporting requirements, and requests for information.



(3) Capital(A) In generalThe Board may not, by regulation, guideline, order, or otherwise, prescribe or impose any capital or capital adequacy rules, guidelines, standards, or requirements on any functionally regulated subsidiary of a bank holding company that—(i) is not a depository institution; and

(ii) is—(I) in compliance with the applicable capital requirements of its Federal regulatory authority (including the Securities and Exchange Commission) or State insurance authority;

(II) properly registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80b–1 et seq.], or with any State; or

(III) is licensed as an insurance agent with the appropriate State insurance authority.



(B) Rule of constructionSubparagraph (A) shall not be construed as preventing the Board from imposing capital or capital adequacy rules, guidelines, standards, or requirements with respect to—(i) activities of a registered investment adviser other than with respect to investment advisory activities or activities incidental to investment advisory activities; or

(ii) activities of a licensed insurance agent other than insurance agency activities or activities incidental to insurance agency activities.


(C) Limitations on indirect actionIn developing, establishing, or assessing bank holding company capital or capital adequacy rules, guidelines, standards, or requirements for purposes of this paragraph, the Board may not take into account the activities, operations, or investments of an affiliated investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a–1 et seq.], unless the investment company is—(i) a bank holding company; or

(ii) controlled by a bank holding company by reason of ownership by the bank holding company (including through all of its affiliates) of 25 percent or more of the shares of the investment company, and the shares owned by the bank holding company have a market value equal to more than $1,000,000.



(4) Functional regulation of securities and insurance activities(A) Securities activitiesSecurities activities conducted in a functionally regulated subsidiary of a depository institution shall be subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and by relevant State securities authorities, as appropriate, subject to section 6701 of title 15, to the same extent as if they were conducted in a nondepository institution subsidiary of a bank holding company.


(B) Insurance activitiesSubject to section 6701 of title 15, insurance agency and brokerage activities and activities as principal conducted in a functionally regulated subsidiary of a depository institution shall be subject to regulation by a State insurance authority to the same extent as if they were conducted in a nondepository institution subsidiary of a bank holding company.



(5) DefinitionFor purposes of this subsection, the term “functionally regulated subsidiary” means any company—(A) that is not a bank holding company or a depository institution; and

(B) that is—(i) a broker or dealer that is registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.];

(ii) a registered investment adviser, properly registered by or on behalf of either the Securities and Exchange Commission or any State, with respect to the investment advisory activities of such investment adviser and activities incidental to such investment advisory activities;

(iii) an investment company that is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a–1 et seq.];

(iv) an insurance company, with respect to insurance activities of the insurance company and activities incidental to such insurance activities, that is subject to supervision by a State insurance regulator; or

(v) an entity that is subject to regulation by, or registration with, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, with respect to activities conducted as a futures commission merchant, commodity trading adviser, commodity pool, commodity pool operator, swap execution facility, swap data repository, swap dealer, major swap participant, and activities that are incidental to such commodities and swaps activities.




(d) Reports to the Congress; recommendationsBefore the expiration of two years following May 9, 1956, and each year thereafter in the Board’s annual report to the Congress, the Board shall report to the Congress the results of the administration of this chapter, stating what, if any, substantial difficulties have been encountered in carrying out the purposes of this chapter, and any recommendations as to changes in the law which in the opinion of the Board would be desirable.


(e) Termination of activities or ownership or control of nonbank subsidiaries constituting serious risk(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Board may, whenever it has reasonable cause to believe that the continuation by a bank holding company of any activity or of ownership or control of any of its nonbank subsidiaries, other than a nonbank subsidiary of a bank, constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of a bank holding company subsidiary bank and is inconsistent with sound banking principles or with the purposes of this chapter or with the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966, at the election of the bank holding company—(A) order the bank holding company or any such nonbank subsidiaries, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, and after considering the views of the bank’s primary supervisor, which shall be the Comptroller of the Currency in the case of a national bank or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the appropriate State supervisory authority in the case of an insured nonmember bank, to terminate such activities or to terminate (within one hundred and twenty days or such longer period as the Board may direct in unusual circumstances) its ownership or control of any such subsidiary either by sale or by distribution of the shares of the subsidiary to the shareholders of the bank holding company; or

(B) order the bank holding company, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, and after consultation with the primary supervisor for the bank, which shall be the Comptroller of the Currency in the case of a national bank, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the appropriate State supervisor in the case of an insured nonmember bank, to terminate (within 120 days or such longer period as the Board may direct) the ownership or control of any such bank by such company.


The distribution referred to in subparagraph (A) shall be pro rata with respect to all of the shareholders of the distributing bank holding company, and the holding company shall not make any charge to its shareholders arising out of such a distribution.

(2) The Board may in its discretion apply to the United States district court within the jurisdiction of which the principal office of the holding company is located, for the enforcement of any effective and outstanding order issued under this section, and such court shall have jurisdiction and power to order and require compliance therewith, but except as provided in section 1848 of this title, no court shall have jurisdiction to affect by injunction or otherwise the issuance or enforcement of any notice or order under this section, or to review, modify, suspend, terminate, or set aside any such notice or order.


(f) Powers of Board respecting applications, examinations, or other proceedingsIn the course of or in connection with an application, examination, investigation or other proceeding under this chapter, the Board, or any member or designated representative thereof, including any person designated to conduct any hearing under this chapter, shall have the power to administer oaths and affirmations, to take or cause to be taken depositions, and to issue, revoke, quash, or modify subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum; and the Board is empowered to make rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this subsection. The attendance of witnesses and the production of documents provided for in this subsection may be required from any place in any State or in any territory or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States at any designated place where such proceeding is being conducted. Any party to proceedings under this chapter may apply to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, or the United States district court for the judicial district or the United States court in any territory in which such proceeding is being conducted or where the witness resides or carries on business, for the enforcement of any subpoena or subpoena duces tecum issued pursuant to this subsection, and such courts shall have jurisdiction and power to order and require compliance therewith. Witnesses subpoenaed under this subsection shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the district courts of the United States. Any service required under this subsection may be made by registered mail, or in such other manner reasonably calculated to give actual notice as the Board may by regulation or otherwise provide. Any court having jurisdiction of any proceeding instituted under this subsection may allow to any such party such reasonable expenses and attorneys’ fees as it deems just and proper. Any person who willfully shall fail or refuse to attend and testify or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, contracts, agreements, or other records, if in such person’s power so to do, in obedience to the subpoena of the Board, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for a term of not more than one year or both.


(g) Authority of State insurance regulator and the Securities and Exchange Commission(1) In generalNotwithstanding any other provision of law, any regulation, order, or other action of the Board that requires a bank holding company to provide funds or other assets to a subsidiary depository institution shall not be effective nor enforceable with respect to an entity described in subparagraph (A) if—(A) such funds or assets are to be provided by—(i) a bank holding company that is an insurance company, a broker or dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.], an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a–1 et seq.], or an investment adviser registered by or on behalf of either the Securities and Exchange Commission or any State; or

(ii) an affiliate of the depository institution that is an insurance company or a broker or dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or an investment adviser registered by or on behalf of either the Securities and Exchange Commission or any State; and


(B) the State insurance authority for the insurance company or the Securities and Exchange Commission for the registered broker, dealer, investment adviser (solely with respect to investment advisory activities or activities incidental thereto), or investment company, as the case may be, determines in writing sent to the holding company and the Board that the holding company shall not provide such funds or assets because such action would have a material 22 So in original. Probably should be “materially”. adverse effect on the financial condition of the insurance company or the broker, dealer, investment company, or investment adviser, as the case may be.


(2) Notice to State insurance authority or SEC requiredIf the Board requires a bank holding company, or an affiliate of a bank holding company, that is an insurance company or a broker, dealer, investment company, or investment adviser described in paragraph (1)(A) to provide funds or assets to a depository institution subsidiary of the holding company pursuant to any regulation, order, or other action of the Board referred to in paragraph (1), the Board shall promptly notify the State insurance authority for the insurance company, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or State securities regulator, as the case may be, of such requirement.


(3) Divestiture in lieu of other actionIf the Board receives a notice described in paragraph (1)(B) from a State insurance authority or the Securities and Exchange Commission with regard to a bank holding company or affiliate referred to in that paragraph, the Board may order the bank holding company to divest the depository institution not later than 180 days after receiving the notice, or such longer period as the Board determines consistent with the safe and sound operation of the depository institution.


(4) Conditions before divestitureDuring the period beginning on the date an order to divest is issued by the Board under paragraph (3) to a bank holding company and ending on the date the divestiture is completed, the Board may impose any conditions or restrictions on the holding company’s ownership or operation of the depository institution, including restricting or prohibiting transactions between the depository institution and any affiliate of the institution, as are appropriate under the circumstances.


(5) Rule of constructionNo provision of this subsection may be construed as limiting or otherwise affecting, except to the extent specifically provided in this subsection, the regulatory authority, including the scope of the authority, of any Federal agency or department with regard to any entity that is within the jurisdiction of such agency or department.



(May 9, 1956, ch. 240, § 5, 70 Stat. 137; Pub. L. 95–630, title I, §§ 105(a), 106(b), Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3646, 3648; Pub. L. 106–102, title I, §§ 111, 112(a), 116, Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1362, 1366, 1372; Pub. L. 111–203, title III, § 354(3), title VI, §§ 604(a)–(c)(1), 616(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1547, 1599–1601, 1615.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act”, meaning act May 9, 1956, ch. 240, 70 Stat. 133, known as the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1841 of this title and Tables.
Section 1843(l)(1)(C) of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), was redesignated section 1843(l)(1)(D) of this title by Pub. L. 111–203, title VI, § 606(a)(2), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1607.
The Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(A), is title X of Pub. L. 111–203, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1955. Subtitle B of the Act is classified generally to part B (§ 5511 et seq.) of subchapter V of chapter 53 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5301 of this title and Tables.
The Investment Advisers Act of 1940, referred to in subsec. (c)(3)(A)(ii)(II), is title II of act Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, 54 Stat. 847, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 80b–1 et seq.) of chapter 2D of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 80b–20 of Title 15 and Tables.
The Investment Company Act of 1940, referred to in subsecs. (c)(3)(C), (5)(B)(iii) and (g)(1)(A), is title I of act Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, 54 Stat. 789, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 80a–1 et seq.) of chapter 2D of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 80a–51 of Title 15 and Tables.
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, referred to in subsecs. (c)(5)(B)(i) and (g)(1)(A), is act June 6, 1934, ch. 404, 48 Stat. 881, which is classified principally to chapter 2B (§ 78a et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 78a of Title 15 and Tables.
The Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966, referred to in subsec. (e)(1), is Pub. L. 89–695, Oct. 16, 1966, 80 Stat. 1028. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1966 Amendment note set out under section 1464 of this title and Tables.

Amendments2010—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 111–203, § 616(a), inserted “, including regulations and orders relating to the capital requirements for bank holding companies,” after “orders” and “In establishing capital regulations pursuant to this subsection, the Board shall seek to make such requirements countercyclical, so that the amount of capital required to be maintained by a company increases in times of economic expansion and decreases in times of economic contraction, consistent with the safety and soundness of the company.” at the end.
Subsec. (c)(1)(A)(ii). Pub. L. 111–203, § 604(a)(1), added cl. (ii) and struck out former cl. (ii) which read as follows: “compliance by the company or subsidiary with applicable provisions of this chapter or any other Federal law that the Board has specific jurisdiction to enforce against such company or subsidiary.”
Subsec. (c)(1)(B). Pub. L. 111–203, § 604(a)(2), added subpar. (B) and struck out former subpar. (B) which related to use of existing reports.
Subsec. (c)(1)(C). Pub. L. 111–203, § 604(a)(3), added subpar. (C).
Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 111–203, § 604(b), amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (2) consisted of subpars. (A) to (E) relating to examination authority for bank holding companies and subsidiaries, functionally regulated subsidiaries, restricted focus of examinations, deference to bank examinations, and deference to other examinations, respectively.
Subsec. (c)(5)(B)(v). Pub. L. 111–203, § 604(c)(1), added cl. (v) and struck out former cl. (v) which read as follows: “an entity that is subject to regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, with respect to the commodities activities of such entity and activities incidental to such commodities activities.”
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 111–203, § 354(3), substituted “subpoenas” for “subpenas” in two places, “subpoena” for “subpena” wherever appearing, and “subpoenaed” for “subpenaed”.
1999—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 106–102, § 116(a), inserted at end “A declaration filed in accordance with section 1843(l)(1)(C) of this title shall satisfy the requirements of this subsection with regard to the registration of a bank holding company but not any requirement to file an application to acquire a bank pursuant to section 1842 of this title.”
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 106–102, § 111, inserted heading and amended text of subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Board from time to time may require reports under oath to keep it informed as to whether the provisions of this chapter and such regulations and orders issued thereunder have been complied with; and the Board may make examinations of each bank holding company and each subsidiary thereof, the cost of which shall be assessed against, and paid by, such holding company. The Board shall, as far as possible, use the report of examinations made by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the appropriate State bank supervisory authority for the purposes of this section.”
Subsec. (e)(1). Pub. L. 106–102, § 116(b), in first sentence, substituted “Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966, at the election of the bank holding company—” along with subpar. (A) designation and “order” for “Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966, order” and “shareholders of the bank holding company; or” along with subpar. (B) for “shareholders of the bank holding company.”, designated second sentence as concluding provisions, and substituted “The distribution referred to in subparagraph (A)” for “Such distribution”.
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 106–102, § 112(a), added subsec. (g).
1978—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 95–630, § 105(a), added subsec. (e).
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 95–630, § 106(b), added subsec. (f).

Effective Date of 2010 AmendmentAmendment by section 354(3) of Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the transfer date, see section 351 of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 906 of Title 2, The Congress.
Amendment by section 604(a)–(c)(1) of Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the transfer date, see section 604(j) of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 1462 of this title.
Amendment by section 616(a) of Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the transfer date, see section 616(e) of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 1467a of this title.

Effective Date of 1999 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 106–102 effective 120 days after Nov. 12, 1999, see section 161 of Pub. L. 106–102, set out as a note under section 24 of this title.

Effective Date of 1978 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 95–630 effective on expiration of 120 days after Nov. 10, 1978, see section 2101 of Pub. L. 95–630, set out as an Effective Date note under section 375b of this title.

Termination of Reporting RequirementsFor termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103–7 (in which a report required under subsection (d) of this section is listed on page 171), see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance.


