§ 2684a. Agreements to limit encroachments and other constraints on military training, testing, and operations(a) Agreements Authorized.—The Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department may enter into an agreement with an eligible entity or entities described in subsection (b) to address the use or development of real property in the vicinity of, or ecologically related to, a military installation or military airspace for purposes of—(1) limiting any development or use of the property that would be incompatible with the mission of the installation;

(2) preserving habitat on the property in a manner that—(A) is compatible with environmental requirements; and

(B) may eliminate or relieve current or anticipated environmental restrictions that would or might otherwise restrict, impede, or otherwise interfere, whether directly or indirectly, with current or anticipated military training, testing, or operations on the installation; or


(3) protecting Clear Zone Areas from use or encroachment that is incompatible with the mission of the installation.


(b) Eligible Entities.—An agreement under this section may be entered into with any of the following:(1) A State or political subdivision of a State.

(2) A private entity that has as its stated principal organizational purpose or goal the conservation, restoration, or preservation of land and natural resources, or a similar purpose or goal, as determined by the Secretary concerned.


(c) Inapplicability of Certain Contract Requirements.—Notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, an agreement under this section that is a cooperative agreement or a grant may be used to acquire property or services for the direct benefit or use of the United States Government.

(d) Acquisition and Acceptance of Property and Interests.—(1) An agreement with an eligible entity or entities under this section shall provide for—(A) the acquisition by the entity or entities of all right, title, and interest in and to any real property, or any lesser interest in the property, as may be appropriate for purposes of this section; and

(B) the sharing by the United States and the entity or entities of the acquisition costs in accordance with paragraph (3).


(2) Property or interests may not be acquired pursuant to the agreement unless the owner of the property or interests consents to the acquisition.

(3) An agreement with an eligible entity under this section may provide for the management of natural resources on, and the monitoring and enforcement of any right, title, real property in which the Secretary concerned acquires any right, title, or interest in accordance with this subsection and for the payment by the United States of all or a portion of the costs of such natural resource management and monitoring and enforcement if the Secretary concerned determines that there is a demonstrated need to preserve or restore habitat for the purpose described in subsection (a)(2). Any such payment by the United States—(A) may be paid in a lump sum and include an amount intended to cover the future costs of natural resource management and monitoring and enforcement; and

(B) may be placed by the eligible entity in an interest-bearing account, and any interest shall be applied for the same purposes as the principal.


(4)(A) The Secretary concerned shall determine the appropriate portion of the acquisition costs to be borne by the United States in the sharing of acquisition costs of real property, or an interest in real property, under paragraph (1)(B).

(B) In lieu of or in addition to making a monetary contribution toward the cost of acquiring a parcel of real property, or an interest therein, pursuant to an agreement under this section, the Secretary concerned may convey, using the authority provided by section 2869 of this title, real property described in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of such section, subject to the limitation in paragraph (3) of such subsection.

(C) The portion of acquisition costs borne by the United States under subparagraph (A), either through the contribution of funds or excess real property, or both, may not exceed an amount equal to, at the discretion of the Secretary concerned—(i) the fair market value of any property or interest in property to be transferred to the United States upon the request of the Secretary concerned under paragraph (5); or

(ii) the cumulative fair market value of all properties or interests to be transferred to the United States under paragraph (5) pursuant to an agreement under subsection (a).


(D) The portion of acquisition costs borne by the United States under subparagraph (A) may exceed the amount determined under subparagraph (C), but only if—(i) the Secretary concerned provides written notice to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives containing—(I) a certification by the Secretary that the military value to the United States of the property or interest to be acquired justifies a payment in excess of the fair market value of the property or interest; and

(II) a description of the military value to be obtained; and


(ii) the contribution toward the acquisition costs of the property or interest is not made until at least 14 days after the date on which the notice is submitted under clause (i) or, if earlier, at least 10 days after the date on which a copy of the notice is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title.


(E) The contribution of an entity or entities to the acquisition costs of real property, or an interest in real property, under paragraph (1)(B) may include, with the approval of the Secretary concerned, the following or any combination of the following:(i) The provision of funds, including funds received by such entity or entities from a Federal agency outside the Department of Defense or a State or local government in connection with a Federal, State, or local program.

(ii) The provision of in-kind services, including services related to the acquisition or maintenance of such real property or interest in real property.

(iii) The exchange or donation of real property or any interest in real property.



(5)(A) The agreement shall require the entity or entities to transfer to the United States, upon the request of the Secretary concerned, all or a portion of the property or interest acquired under the agreement or a lesser interest therein. No such requirement need be included in the agreement if the property or interest is being transferred to a State, or the agreement requires it to be subsequently transferred to a State, and the Secretary concerned determines that the laws and regulations applicable to the future use of such property or interest provide adequate assurance that the property concerned will be developed and used in a manner appropriate for purposes of this section. The Secretary shall limit such transfer request to the minimum property or interests necessary to ensure that the property concerned is developed and used in a manner appropriate for purposes of this section.

(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), if all or a portion of the property or interest acquired under the agreement is subsequently transferred to the United States and administrative jurisdiction over the property is under a Federal official other than a Secretary concerned, the Secretary concerned and that Federal official shall enter into a memorandum of agreement providing, to the satisfaction of the Secretary concerned, for the management of the property or interest concerned in a manner appropriate for purposes of this section. Such memorandum of agreement shall also provide that, should it be proposed that the property or interest concerned be developed or used in a manner not appropriate for purposes of this section, including declaring the property to be excess to the agency’s needs or proposing to exchange the property for other property, the Secretary concerned may request that administrative jurisdiction over the property be transferred to the Secretary concerned at no cost, and, upon such a request being made, the administrative jurisdiction over the property shall be transferred accordingly.


(6) The Secretary concerned may accept on behalf of the United States any property or interest to be transferred to the United States under the agreement.

(7) For purposes of the acceptance of property or interests under the agreement, the Secretary concerned may accept an appraisal or title documents prepared or adopted by a non-Federal entity as satisfying the applicable requirements of section 301 of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4651) or section 3111 of title 40, if the Secretary concerned finds that the appraisal or title documents substantially comply with the requirements.


(e) Acquisition of Water Rights.—The authority of the Secretary concerned to enter into an agreement under this section for the acquisition of real property (or an interest therein) includes the authority to support the purchase of water rights from any available source when necessary to support or protect the mission of a military installation.

(f) Additional Terms and Conditions.—The Secretary concerned may require such additional terms and conditions in an agreement under this section as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

(g) Annual Reports.—(1) Not later than March 1 each year, the Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments and the Director of the Department of Defense Test Resource Management Center, submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the projects undertaken under agreements under this section.

(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:(A) A description of the status of the projects undertaken under agreements under this section.

(B) An assessment of the effectiveness of such projects, and other actions taken pursuant to this section, as part of a long-term strategy to ensure the sustainability of military test and training ranges, military installations, and associated airspace.

(C) An evaluation of the methodology and criteria used to select, and to establish priorities, for projects undertaken under agreements under this section.

(D) A description of any sharing of costs by the United States and eligible entities under subsection (d) during the preceding year, including a description of each agreement under this section providing for the sharing of such costs and a statement of the eligible entity or entities with which the United States is sharing such costs.

(E) Such recommendations as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate for legislative or administrative action in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of actions taken pursuant to agreements under this section.



(h) Interagency Cooperation in Conservation Programs To Avoid or Reduce Adverse Impacts on Military Readiness Activities.—In order to facilitate interagency cooperation and enhance the effectiveness of actions that will protect both the environment and military readiness, the recipient of funds provided pursuant an agreement under this section or under the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. et seq.) 11 So in original. Probably should be “(16 U.S.C. 670 et seq.)”. may, with regard to the lands and waters within the scope of the agreement, use such funds to satisfy any matching funds or cost-sharing requirement of any conservation program of the Department of Agriculture or the Department of the Interior notwithstanding any limitation of such program on the source of matching or cost-sharing funds.

(i) Funding.—(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), funds authorized to be appropriated for operation and maintenance of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Defense-wide activities may be used to enter into agreements under this section.

(2) In the case of a military installation operated primarily with funds authorized to be appropriated for research, development, test, and evaluation, funds authorized to be appropriated for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Defense-wide activities for research, development, test, and evaluation may be used to enter into agreements under this section with respect to the installation.


(j) Definitions.—In this section:(1) The term “Secretary concerned” means the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department.

(2) The term “State” includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, and the territories and possessions of the United States.

(3) The term “Clear Zone Area” means an area immediately beyond the end of the runway of an airfield that is needed to ensure the safe and unrestricted passage of aircraft in and over the area.


(Added Pub. L. 107–314, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2811(a), Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2705; amended Pub. L. 109–163, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2822, Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3513; Pub. L. 109–364, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2811(g), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2473; Pub. L. 110–181, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2825, Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 545; Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title X, § 1073(a)(27), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2474; Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title X, § 1075(b)(43), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4371; Pub. L. 112–81, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2813, Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1687; Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title III, § 312(a), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 729.)

Amendment of SectionFor termination of amendment by section 312(b) of Pub. L. 113–66, see Termination of 2013 Amendment note below.


References in TextThe Sikes Act, referred to in subsec. (h), is Pub. L. 86–797, Sept. 15, 1960, 74 Stat. 1052, which is classified generally to chapter 5C (§ 670 et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 670 of Title 16 and Tables.

Amendments2013—Subsecs. (h) to (j). Pub. L. 113–66 temporarily added subsec. (h) and temporarily redesignated former subsecs. (h) and (i) as (i) and (j), respectively. See Termination of 2013 Amendment note below.
2011—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 112–81, § 2813(1), added par. (3).
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 112–81, § 2813(2), amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Chapter 63 of title 31 shall not apply to any agreement entered into under this section.”
Subsec. (d)(3). Pub. L. 112–81, § 2813(3)(A), inserted “, and the monitoring and enforcement of any right, title, or interest in,” after “resources on” and “and monitoring and enforcement” after “natural resource management”, and inserted at end “Any such payment by the United States—
“(A) may be paid in a lump sum and include an amount intended to cover the future costs of natural resource management and monitoring and enforcement; and
“(B) may be placed by the eligible entity in an interest-bearing account, and any interest shall be applied for the same purposes as the principal.”
Subsec. (d)(5). Pub. L. 112–81, § 2813(3)(B), designated existing provisions as subpar. (A), inserted after first sentence “No such requirement need be included in the agreement if the property or interest is being transferred to a State, or the agreement requires it to be subsequently transferred to a State, and the Secretary concerned determines that the laws and regulations applicable to the future use of such property or interest provide adequate assurance that the property concerned will be developed and used in a manner appropriate for purposes of this section.”, and added subpar. (B).
Subsec. (g)(1). Pub. L. 111–383 substituted “March 1 each year” for “March 1, 2007, and annually thereafter”.
Subsec. (i)(3). Pub. L. 112–81, § 2813(4), added par. (3).
2009—Subsec. (g)(2). Pub. L. 111–84 substituted “the following” for “the following the following” in introductory provisions.
2008—Subsec. (d)(3), (4). Pub. L. 110–181, § 2825(a), added par. (3) and redesignated former par. (3) as (4). Former par. (4) redesignated (5).
Subsec. (d)(4)(C). Pub. L. 110–181, § 2825(b)(2), substituted “equal to, at the discretion of the Secretary concerned—” and cls. (i) and (ii) for “equal to the fair market value of any property or interest to be transferred to the United States upon the request of the Secretary concerned under paragraph (4).”
Subsec. (d)(4)(D), (E). Pub. L. 110–181, § 2825(b)(1), (3), added subpar. (D) and redesignated former subpar. (D) as (E).
Subsec. (d)(5) to (7). Pub. L. 110–181, § 2825(a)(1), redesignated pars. (4) to (6) as (5) to (7), respectively.
2006—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 109–163, § 2822(a)(1), in introductory provisions, inserted “or entities” after “entity” and substituted “in the vicinity of, or ecologically related to, a military installation or military airspace” for “in the vicinity of a military installation”.
Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 109–163, § 2822(a)(2)(A)(i), (b)(1)(A), inserted “or entities” after “eligible entity” and substituted “shall provide” for “may provide” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (d)(1)(A). Pub. L. 109–163, § 2822(a)(2)(A)(ii), inserted “or entities” after “the entity”.
Subsec. (d)(1)(B). Pub. L. 109–163, § 2822(b)(1)(B), added subpar. (B) and struck out former subpar. (B) which read as follows: “the sharing by the United States and the entity of the acquisition costs.”
Subsec. (d)(3). Pub. L. 109–364 added subpar. (B), redesignated former subpars. (B) and (C) as (C) and (D), respectively, and in subpar. (C) substituted “under subparagraph (A), either through the contribution of funds or excess real property, or both,” for “in the sharing of acquisition costs of real property, or an interest in real property, under paragraph (1)(B)”.
Pub. L. 109–163, § 2822(b)(3), added par. (3). Former par. (3) redesignated (4).
Pub. L. 109–163, § 2822(a)(2)(B), inserted “or entities” after “the entity”.
Subsec. (d)(4) to (6). Pub. L. 109–163, § 2822(b)(2), redesignated pars. (3) to (5) as (4) to (6), respectively.
Subsecs. (g) to (i). Pub. L. 109–163, § 2822(c), added subsec. (g) and redesignated former subsecs. (g) and (h) as (h) and (i), respectively.

Termination of 2013 AmendmentPub. L. 113–66, div. A, title III, § 312(b), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 729, provided that: “This section [amending this section] and subsection (h) of section 2684a of title 10, United States Code, as added by this section, shall expire on October 1, 2019, except that any agreement referred to in such subsection that is entered into on or before September 30, 2019, shall continue according to its terms and conditions as if this section has not expired.”



