§ 9305. Civilian flying school instructors: instruction at Air Force training commands(a) The Secretary of the Air Force may provide for the instruction and training, at Air Force training commands, of civilians selected from the instructional staffs of civilian flying schools that are accredited by the Department of the Air Force for the education and training of members of the Air Force.

(b) The training of civilians under subsection (a) shall be without cost to the United States, except for supplies necessary for training purposes.

(c) A civilian undergoing training under subsection (a) may be treated in a Government hospital if he becomes sick or is injured. However, that treatment shall be without cost to the United States except for services of Government medical personnel and the use of hospital equipment other than medicine or supplies.

(d) No civilian who sustains a personal injury, and no dependent of a civilian who dies of disease or injury, while undergoing training under subsection (a), is entitled to any compensation, pension, or gratuity for that injury or death.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 560.)











Historical and Revision Notes


Revised sectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


9305(a)9305(b)10:292c–1 (less provisos).10:292c–1 (1st proviso).Apr. 3, 1939, ch. 35, § 3, 53 Stat. 556.
9305(c)10:292c–1 (2d proviso).
9305(d)10:292c–1 (last proviso).


In subsection (a), the words “under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe” are omitted, since the Secretary has inherent authority to issue regulations appropriate to exercising his statutory functions. The words “Air Force training commands” are substituted for the words “the Air Corps Training Center”, since those commands now perform the functions formerly performed by the Air Corps Training Center. The words “in his discretion”, “experience”, and “upon their own applications” are omitted as surplusage. The words “and may provide for the instruction and training” are substituted for the words “is authorized to enroll as students * * * for the pursuit of such courses of instruction as may be prescribed therefor”.
In subsection (b), the words “the furnishing of such” are omitted as surplusage. The words “matériel, or equipment” are omitted as covered by the word “supplies”, as defined in section 101(26) of this title.
In subsection (c), the word “Government” is substituted for the words “Medical Department” to conform to the first sentence of the revised subsection.


