§ 875. Art. 75. Restoration(a) Under such regulations as the President may prescribe, all rights, privileges, and property affected by an executed part of a court-martial sentence which has been set aside or disapproved, except an executed dismissal or discharge, shall be restored unless a new trial or rehearing is ordered and such executed part is included in a sentence imposed upon the new trial or rehearing.

(b) If a previously executed sentence of dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge is not imposed on a new trial, the Secretary concerned shall substitute therefor a form of discharge authorized for administrative issuance unless the accused is to serve out the remainder of his enlistment.

(c) If a previously executed sentence of dismissal is not imposed on a new trial, the Secretary concerned shall substitute therefor a form of discharge authorized for administrative issue, and the commissioned officer dismissed by that sentence may be reappointed by the President alone to such commissioned grade and with such rank as in the opinion of the President that former officer would have attained had he not been dismissed. The reappointment of such a former officer shall be without regard to the existence of a vacancy and shall affect the promotion status of other officers only insofar as the President may direct. All time between the dismissal and the reappointment shall be considered as actual service for all purposes, including the right to pay and allowances.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 63.)











Historical and Revision Notes


Revised sectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


875(a)875(b)50:662(a).50:662(b).May 5, 1950, ch. 169, § 1 (Art. 75), 64 Stat. 132.
875(c)50:662(c).


In subsections (b) and (c), the word “If” is substituted for the word “Where”. The word “imposed” is substituted for the word “sustained”. The words “Secretary concerned” are substituted for the words “Secretary of the Department”.
In subsection (c), the word “issue” is substituted for the word “issuance”. The word “commissioned” is inserted for clarity. The words “grade and with such rank” are substituted for the words “rank and precedence”, since a person is appointed to a grade, not a position of precedence, and the word “rank” is the accepted military word denoting the general idea of precedence. The words “the existence of a” are substituted for the word “position”. The word “receive” is omitted as surplusage.


Delegation of Functions
For delegation to Secretary of Homeland Security of certain authority vested in President by this section, see section 2(b) of Ex. Ord. No. 10637, Sept. 16, 1955, 20 F.R. 7025, as amended, set out as a note under section 301 of Title 3, The President.


