§ 3871a. Definitions
In this subchapter:(1) Covered programThe term “covered program” means the following:(A) The agricultural conservation easement program.

(B) The environmental quality incentives program.

(C) The conservation stewardship program.

(D) The healthy forests reserve program established under section 6571 of this title.


(2) Eligible activityThe term “eligible activity” means a conservation activity for any of the following:(A) Water quality restoration or enhancement projects, including nutrient management and sediment reduction.

(B) Water quantity conservation, restoration, or enhancement projects relating to surface water and groundwater resources, including—(i) the conversion of irrigated cropland to the production of less water-intensive agricultural commodities or dryland farming; or

(ii) irrigation system improvement and irrigation efficiency enhancement.


(C) Drought mitigation.

(D) Flood prevention.

(E) Water retention.

(F) Air quality improvement.

(G) Habitat conservation, restoration, and enhancement.

(H) Erosion control and sediment reduction.

(I) Forest restoration.

(J) Other related activities that the Secretary determines will help achieve conservation benefits.


(3) Eligible land(A) In generalThe term “eligible land” means—(i) land on which agricultural commodities, livestock, or forest-related products are produced; and

(ii) lands associated with the lands described in clause (i).


(B) InclusionsThe term “eligible land” includes—(i) cropland;

(ii) grassland;

(iii) rangeland;

(iv) pastureland;

(v) nonindustrial private forest land; and

(vi) other land incidental to agricultural production (including wetlands and riparian buffers) on which significant natural resource issues could be addressed under the program.



(4) Eligible partnerThe term “eligible partner” means any of the following:(A) An agricultural or silvicultural producer association or other group of producers.

(B) A State or unit of local government.

(C) An Indian tribe.

(D) A farmer cooperative.

(E) A water district, irrigation district, rural water district or association, or other organization with specific water delivery authority to producers on agricultural land.

(F) A municipal water or wastewater treatment entity.

(G) An institution of higher education.

(H) An organization or entity with an established history of working cooperatively with producers on agricultural land, as determined by the Secretary, to address—(i) local conservation priorities related to agricultural production, wildlife habitat development, or nonindustrial private forest land management; or

(ii) critical watershed-scale soil erosion, water quality, sediment reduction, or other natural resource issues.



(5) Partnership agreementThe term “partnership agreement” means an agreement entered into under section 3871b of this title between the Secretary and an eligible partner.


(6) ProgramThe term “program” means the regional conservation partnership program established by this subchapter.


(Pub. L. 99–198, title XII, § 1271A, as added Pub. L. 113–79, title II, § 2401, Feb. 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 745.)
