§ 5710. Oversight and audits(a) Inspector General oversightThe Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury shall conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations of the use of funds made available under the Program.


(b) GAO auditThe Comptroller General of the United States shall perform an annual audit of the Program and issue a report to the appropriate committees of Congress containing the results of such audit.


(c) Required certification(1) Financial institutions certificationWith respect to funds received by a participating State under the Program, any financial institution that receives a loan, a loan guarantee, or other financial assistance using such funds after September 27, 2010, shall certify that such institution is in compliance with the requirements of section 103.121 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations, a regulation that, at a minimum, requires financial institutions, as that term is defined in section 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1)(A) of title 31, to implement reasonable procedures to verify the identity of any person seeking to open an account, to the extent reasonable and practicable, maintain records of the information used to verify the person’s identity, and determine whether the person appears on any lists of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations provided to the financial institution by any government agency.


(2) Sex offense certificationWith respect to funds received by a participating State under the Program, any private entity that receives a loan, a loan guarantee, or other financial assistance using such funds after September 27, 2010, shall certify to the participating State that the principals of such entity have not been convicted of a sex offense against a minor (as such terms are defined in section 16911 of title 42).



(d) Prohibition on pornographyNone of the funds made available under this chapter may be used to pay the salary of any individual engaged in activities related to the Program who has been officially disciplined for violations of subpart G of the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch for viewing, downloading, or exchanging pornography, including child pornography, on a Federal Government computer or while performing official Federal Government duties.


(Pub. L. 111–240, title III, § 3011, Sept. 27, 2010, 124 Stat. 2581.)
