§ 719g. Transportation system certificates, rights-of-way, permits, leases, or other authorizations(a) Earliest practicable date for issuance or grant of authorizationsTo the extent that the taking of any action which is necessary or related to the construction and initial operation of the approved transportation system requires a certificate, right-of-way, permit, lease, or other authorization to be issued or granted by a Federal officer or agency, such Federal officer or agency shall—(1) to the fullest extent permitted by the provisions of law administered by such officer or agency, but

(2) without regard to any provision of law which is waived pursuant to section 719f(g) of this title issue or grant such certificates, permits, rights-of-way, leases, and other authorizations at the earliest practicable date.


(b) Expedition and precedence of actions on applications or requestsAll actions of a Federal officer or agency with respect to consideration of applications or requests for the issuance or grant of a certificate, right-of-way, permit, lease, or other authorization to which subsection (a) of this section applies shall be expedited and any such application or request shall take precedence over any similar applications or requests of the Federal officer or agency.


(c) Required terms and conditionsAny certificate, right-of-way, permit, lease, or other authorization issued or granted pursuant to the direction under subsection (a) of this section shall include the terms and conditions required by law unless waived pursuant to a resolution under section 719f(g) of this title, and may include terms and conditions permitted by law, except that with respect to terms and conditions permitted but not required, the Federal officer or agency, notwithstanding any such other provision of law, shall have no authority to include terms and conditions as would compel a change in the basic nature and general route of the approved transportation system or those the inclusion of which would otherwise prevent or impair in any significant respect the expeditious construction and initial operation of such transportation system.


(d) Additions to, and amendment or abrogation of authorizations; exceptionAny Federal officer or agency, with respect to any certificate, permit, right-of-way, lease, or other authorization issued or granted by such officer or agency, may, to the extent permitted under laws administered by such officer or agency add to, amend or abrogate any term or condition included in such certificate, permit, right-of-way, lease, or other authorization except that with respect to any such action which is permitted but not required by law, such Federal officer or agency, notwithstanding any such other provision of law, shall have no authority to take such action if the terms and conditions to be added, or as amended, would compel a change in the basic nature and general route of the approved transportation system or would otherwise prevent or impair in any significant respect the expeditious construction and initial operation of such transportation system.


(e) Appropriate terms and conditionsAny Federal officer or agency to which subsection (a) of this section applies, to the extent permitted under laws administered by such officer or agency, shall include in any certificate, permit, right-of-way, lease, or authorization issued or granted those terms and conditions identified in the President’s decision as appropriate for inclusion except that the requirement to include such terms and conditions shall not limit the Federal officer or agency’s authority under subsection (d) of this section.


(Pub. L. 94–586, § 9, Oct. 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 2912.)


Transfer of Functions
Enforcement functions authorized by, and supplemental enforcement authority created by this chapter with respect to pre-construction, construction, and initial operation of transportation system for Canadian and Alaskan natural gas transferred to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, until first anniversary of date of initial operation of Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, see Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1979, §§ 102(h)(1), 203(a), 44 F.R. 33663, 33666, 93 Stat. 1373, 1376, effective July 1, 1979, set out under section 719e of this title. Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System abolished and functions and authority vested in Inspector transferred to Secretary of Energy by section 3012(b) of Pub. L. 102–486, set out as an Abolition of Office of Federal Inspector note under section 719e of this title. Functions and authority vested in Secretary of Energy subsequently transferred to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects by section 720d(f) of this title.


