§ 2705. Coordinating and consulting requirements and authorities of Secretary of Energy(a) Conduct of overall management responsibilitiesThe Secretary of Energy shall have overall management responsibility for carrying out the program under section 2703 of this title. In carrying out such program, the Secretary of Energy, consistent with such overall management responsibility—(1) shall utilize the expertise of the Department of Transportation to the extent deemed appropriate by the Secretary of Energy; and

(2) may utilize any other Federal agency (except as provided in paragraph (1)) in accordance with subsection (c) of this section in carrying out any activities under this chapter, to the extent that the Secretary of Energy determines that any such agency has capabilities which would allow such agency to contribute to the purposes of this chapter.


(b) Exercise of powers by Secretary of TransportationThe Secretary of Transportation, whenever the expertise of the Department of Transportation is utilized in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, may exercise the powers granted to the Secretary of Energy under subsection (c) of this section and shall enter into contracts and make grants for such purpose, subject to the overall management responsibility of the Secretary of Energy.


(c) Requests for assistance of Federal departments, etc.The Secretary of Energy may, in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, obtain the assistance of any department, agency, or instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal Government upon written request, on a reimbursable basis or otherwise and with the consent of such department, agency, or instrumentality. Each such request shall identify the assistance the Secretary of Energy deems necessary to carry out any duty under this chapter.


(d) Consultations with Administrator of Environmental Protection Agency and Secretary of Transportation; establishment of procedures for periodic consultation with interested groups; establishment and functions of advisory panelsThe Secretary of Energy shall consult with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Secretary of Transportation, and shall establish procedures for periodic consultation with representatives of science, industry, and such other groups as may have special expertise in the area of automobile propulsion system research, development, and technology. The Secretary of Energy may establish such advisory panels as he deems appropriate to review and make recommendations with respect to applications for funding under this chapter.


(e) Responsibilities under other Federal automotive research, development, and demonstration provisions unaffectedNothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to reduce in any way the responsibilities of the Secretary of Energy for automotive research, development, and demonstration under the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5801 et seq.) and the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5901 et seq.).


(Pub. L. 95–238, title III, § 306, Feb. 25, 1978, 92 Stat. 81.)


References in TextThe Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5801 et seq.), referred to in subsec. (e), is Pub. L. 93–438, Oct. 11, 1974, 88 Stat. 1233, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 73 (§ 5801 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5801 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5901 et seq.), referred to in subsec. (e), is Pub. L. 93–577, Dec. 31, 1974, 88 Stat. 1878, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 74 (§ 5901 et seq.) of Title 42. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5901 of Title 42 and Tables.


