“SEC. 208. CONGRESSIONAL CONSIDERATION OF COMMISSION REPORT“(a) Terms of the Resolution.—For purposes of section 202(b), the term ‘joint resolution’ means only a joint resolution which is introduced before March 15, 1989, and—“(1) which does not have a preamble;

“(2) the matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows: ‘That Congress disapproves the recommendations of the Commission on Base Realignment and Closure established by the Secretary of Defense as submitted to the Secretary of Defense on           ’, the blank space being appropriately filled in; and

“(3) the title of which is as follows: ‘Joint resolution disapproving the recommendations of the Commission on Base Realignment and Closure.’.


“(b) Referral.—A resolution described in subsection (a), introduced in the House of Representatives shall be referred to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives. A resolution described in subsection (a) introduced in the Senate shall be referred to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.

“(c) Discharge.—If the committee to which a resolution described in subsection (a) is referred has not reported such resolution (or an identical resolution) before March 15, 1989, such committee shall be, as of March 15, 1989, discharged from further consideration of such resolution, and such resolution shall be placed on the appropriate calendar of the House involved.

“(d) Consideration.—(1) On or after the third day after the date on which the committee to which such a resolution is referred has reported, or has been discharged (under subsection (c)) from further consideration of, such a resolution, it is in order (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) for any Member of the respective House to move to proceed to the consideration of the resolution (but only on the day after the calendar day on which such Member announces to the House concerned the Member’s intention to do so). All points of order against the resolution (and against consideration of the resolution) are waived. The motion is highly privileged in the House of Representatives and is privileged in the Senate and is not debatable. The motion is not subject to amendment, or to a motion to postpone, or to a motion to proceed to the consideration of other business. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in order. If a motion to proceed to the consideration of the resolution is agreed to, the respective House shall immediately proceed to consideration of the joint resolution without intervening motion, order, or other business, and the resolution shall remain the unfinished business of the respective House until disposed of.

“(2) Debate on the resolution, and on all debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 10 hours, which shall be divided equally between those favoring and those opposing the resolution. An amendment to the resolution is not in order. A motion further to limit debate is in order and not debatable. A motion to postpone, or a motion to proceed to the consideration of other business, or a motion to recommit the resolution is not in order. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the resolution is agreed to or disagreed to is not in order.

“(3) Immediately following the conclusion of the debate on a resolution described in subsection (a) and a single quorum call at the conclusion of the debate if requested in accordance with the rules of the appropriate House, the vote on final passage of the resolution shall occur.

“(4) Appeals from the decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the rules of the Senate or the House of Representatives, as the case may be, to the procedure relating to a resolution described in subsection (a) shall be decided without debate.


“(e) Consideration by Other House.—(1) If, before the passage by one House of a resolution of that House described in subsection (a), that House receives from the other House a resolution described in subsection (a), then the following procedures shall apply:“(A) The resolution of the other House shall not be referred to a committee and may not be considered in the House receiving it except in the case of final passage as provided in subparagraph (B)(ii).

“(B) With respect to a resolution described in subsection (a) of the House receiving the resolution—“(i) the procedure in that House shall be the same as if no resolution had been received from the other House; but

“(ii) the vote on final passage shall be on the resolution of the other House.



“(2) Upon disposition of the resolution received from the other House, it shall no longer be in order to consider the resolution that originated in the receiving House.


“(f) Rules of the Senate and House.—This section is enacted by Congress—“(1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate and House of Representatives, respectively, and as such it is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in that House in the case of a resolution described in subsection (a), and it supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and

“(2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.


