“SEC. 864. DEFINITIONS AND OTHER GENERAL PROVISIONS.“(a) Definitions.—In this subtitle:“(1) Matters relating to contracting.—The term ‘matters relating to contracting’, with respect to contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan, means all matters relating to awarding, funding, managing, tracking, monitoring, and providing oversight to contracts and contractor personnel.

“(2) Contract in iraq or afghanistan.—The term ‘contract in Iraq or Afghanistan’ means a contract with the Department of Defense, the Department of State, or the United States Agency for International Development, a subcontract at any tier issued under such a contract, a task order or delivery order at any tier issued under such a contract, a grant, or a cooperative agreement (including a contract, subcontract, task order, delivery order, grant, or cooperative agreement issued by another Government agency for the Department of Defense, the Department of State, or the United States Agency for International Development), if the contract, subcontract, task order, delivery order, grant, or cooperative agreement involves worked [sic] performed in Iraq or Afghanistan for a period longer than 30 days.

“(3) Covered contract.—The term ‘covered contract’ means—“(A) a contract of a Federal agency for the performance of services in an area of combat operations, as designated by the Secretary of Defense under subsection (c) of section 862;

“(B) a subcontract at any tier under such a contract;

“(C) a task order or delivery order issued under such a contract or subcontract;

“(D) a grant for the performance of services in an area of combat operations, as designated by the Secretary of Defense under subsection (c) of section 862; or

“(E) a cooperative agreement for the performance of services in such an area of combat operations.


“(4) Contractor.—The term ‘contractor’, with respect to a covered contract, means—“(A) in the case of a covered contract that is a contract, subcontract, task order, or delivery order, the contractor or subcontractor carrying out the covered contract;

“(B) in the case of a covered contract that is a grant, the grantee; and

“(C) in the case of a covered contract that is a cooperative agreement, the recipient.


“(5) Contractor personnel.—The term ‘contractor personnel’ means any person performing work under contract for the Department of Defense, the Department of State, or the United States Agency for International Development, in Iraq or Afghanistan, including individuals and subcontractors at any tier.

“(6) Private security functions.—The term ‘private security functions’ means activities engaged in by a contractor under a covered contract as follows:“(A) Guarding of personnel, facilities, or property of a Federal agency, the contractor or subcontractor, or a third party.

“(B) Any other activity for which personnel are required to carry weapons in the performance of their duties.


“(7) Relevant committees of congress.—The term ‘relevant committees of Congress’ means each of the following committees:“(A) The Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

“(B) The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives.

“(C) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

“(D) For purposes of contracts relating to the National Foreign Intelligence Program, the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.



“(b) Classified Information.—Nothing in this subtitle shall be interpreted to require the handling of classified information or information relating to intelligence sources and methods in a manner inconsistent with any law, regulation, executive order, or rule of the House of Representatives or of the Senate relating to the handling or protection of such information.”

