“SEC. 102. LANDS WITHIN BOUNDARIES.“(a) The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in this title referred to as ‘the Secretary’) is authorized to acquire lands and interests therein within the boundaries of the Park by donation, exchange (in accordance with this section), or purchase with donated or appropriated funds, except that—“(1) any lands or interests therein owned by the State of Maine or any political subdivision thereof may be acquired only by donation or exchange; and

“(2) privately owned lands or interests therein may be acquired only with the consent of the owner thereof unless the Secretary determines that the property is being developed or proposed to be developed in a manner which is detrimental to the scenic, historical, cultural, and other values for which the Park was established.


“(b)(1) Not later than 6 months after the enactment of this Act [Sept. 25, 1986], the Secretary shall publish specific guidelines under which determinations shall be made under subsection (a)(2). The Secretary shall provide adequate opportunity for public comment on such guidelines. The guidelines shall provide for notice to the Secretary prior to commencement of any proposed development within the boundaries of the Park. The Secretary shall provide written notice to the owner of the property of any determination proposed to be made under subsection (a)(2) and shall provide the owner a reasonable opportunity to comment on such proposal.

“(2) For purposes of this section, except as provided in paragraph (3), development or proposed development of private property within the boundaries of the Park that is significantly different from, or a significant expansion of, development existing as of November 1, 1985, shall be considered by the Secretary as detrimental to the values for which the Park was established.

“(3) Reconstruction or expansion of a private or commercial building shall not be treated as detrimental to the Park or as an incompatible development within the meaning of this section if such reconstruction or expansion is limited to one or more of the following:“(A) Reconstruction of an existing building.

“(B) Construction of attached or accessory structural additions, which do not exceed 25 per centum of the square footage of the principal structure.

“(C) Construction of reasonable support development such as roads, parking facilities, water and sewage systems, and dock facilities.



“(c)(1) The owners of any private property within the Park may, on the date of its acquisition by the Secretary and as a condition of such acquisition, retain for himself and his successors or assigns a right to use and occupancy for a definite term of not more than 25 years, or ending at the death of the owner, or his spouse, whichever is later. The owners shall elect the term to be reserved. The Secretary shall pay to the owner the fair market value of the property on the date of such acquisition, less the fair market value, of the right retained by the owner.

“(2) Any such right retained pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe and may be terminated by the Secretary upon his determination and after reasonable notice to the owner thereof that such property is being used for any purpose which is incompatible with the administration of the Park or with the preservation of the resources therein. Such right shall terminate by operation of law upon notification to the owner by the Secretary and tendering to the owner the amount equal to the fair market value of that portion which remains unexpired.


“(d)(1) In exercising his authority to acquire lands by exchange pursuant to this title, the Secretary may accept title to non-Federal property located within the the boundary of the Park and may convey to the grantor of such property any federally owned property under the jurisdiction of the Secretary which lies outside said boundary and depicted on the map. Properties so exchanged shall be approximately equal in value, as determined by the Secretary, except that the Secretary may accept cash from or pay cash to the grantor in such an exchange in order to equalize the value of the properties exchanged.

“(2) Federally owned property under jurisdiction of the Secretary referred to in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be conveyed to the towns in which the property is located without encumbrance and without monetary consideration, except that no town shall be eligible to receive such lands unless lands within the Park boundary and owned by the town have been conveyed to the Secretary.


“(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, lands depicted on the map referenced in section 101 and identified as 10DBH and 11DBH known as the ‘Bar Harbor Sewage Treatment Plant’; 14DBH known as the ‘New Park Street Ballfield’; and 15DBH known as the ‘Former Park Headquarters’; shall be conveyed by the Secretary, without monetary consideration, to the town of Bar Harbor, Maine, within 180 days following the enactment of this Act [Sept. 25, 1986]. The real property conveyed pursuant to this subsection shall be used and retained by the town for municipal and public purposes. Title to the properties conveyed pursuant to this subsection shall revert to the United States if such property or any portion thereof is conveyed by the town to another party or used for purposes other than those specified in this subsection.

“(f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, land depicted on the map identified as 4DBH, located in the village of Town Hill, Maine, shall be conveyed by the Secretary without monetary consideration, to the town of Bar Harbor, Maine, as soon as practicable following the enactment of this Act [Sept. 25, 1986], subject to such terms and conditions, including appropriate reversionary provisions, as will in the judgment of the Secretary provide for the development and use of such property by any town which so desires as a solid waste transfer station in accordance with a plan that is satisfactory to the town and the Secretary. The Secretary shall (subject to the availability of prior appropriations) contribute toward the cost of constructing such transfer station the lesser of—“(1) $350,000, or

“(2) 50 per centum of the cost of such construction.


“(g) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary is authorized to acquire by donation or exchange lands or interests therein in the area identified on the map as ‘Schooner Head’, which is outside the boundary of the park. The Secretary is further authorized to acquire conservation easements on such lands by purchase with donated or appropriated funds if he determines after written notice to the owner and after providing a reasonable opportunity to comment on such notice, that the property is being developed or proposed to be developed in a manner which is significantly different from or a significant expansion of development existing as of November 1, 1985, as defined in subsection (b) of this section.

“(h)(1) The Secretary is authorized to acquire conservation easements by purchase from a willing seller or by donation on parcels of land adjacent to the Park on Schoodic Peninsula, the islands of Hancock County, and the islands of Knox County east and south of the Penobscot Ship Channel, except such islands as lie within the town of Isle au Haut, Knox County. Parcels subject to conservation easements acquired or accepted by the Secretary under this subsection must possess one or more of the following characteristics:“(A) important scenic, ecological, historic, archeological, or cultural resources;

“(B) shorefront property; or

“(C) largely undeveloped entire islands.


“(2) Conservation easements acquired pursuant to this subsection shall—“(A) protect the respective scenic, ecological, historic, archeological, or cultural resources existing on the parcels;

“(B) preserve, through setback requirements or other appropriate restrictions, the open, natural, or traditional appearance of the shorefront when viewed from the water or from other public viewpoints; or

“(C) limit year-round and seasonal residential and commercial development to activities consistent with the preservation of the islands’ natural qualities and to traditional resource-based land use including, but not limited to, fishing, farming, silviculture, and grazing.


“(3) In determining whether to accept or acquire conservation easements pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary shall consider the following factors:“(A) the resource protection benefits that would be provided by the conservation easement;

“(B) the public benefit that would be provided by the conservation easement;

“(C) the significance of the easement in relation to the land planning objectives of local government and regional and State agencies;

“(D) the economic impact of the conservation easement on local livelihoods, activities, and government revenues; and

“(E) the proximity of the parcel to the boundary of the Park and to other parcels on which the Secretary maintains conservation easements.


“(4) For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘conservation easement’ means a less-than-fee interest in land or a conservation restriction as defined in section 476 through 479–B inclusive, as amended, of title 33 of the Maine Revised Statutes of 1964, as in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Sept. 25, 1986].

“(5) No easement may be acquired by the Secretary under this subsection without first consulting with, and providing written notification to, the town in which the land is located and the Acadia National Park Advisory Commission established by section 103 of this title. In providing such notification, the Secretary shall indicate the manner and degree to which the easement meets the criteria provided in this subsection.


“(i) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of condemnation as a means of acquiring a clear and marketable title, free of any and all encumbrances.

“(j)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary shall accept an offer of the following from the Jackson Laboratory (a not-for-profit corporation organized under the laws of Maine):“(A) Lands depicted on the map as 55 A ABH which are held in fee by the Jackson Laboratory.

“(B) A conservation easement on lands depicted on the map identified as 55 ABH (the developed property known as ‘Highseas’). The easement shall prohibit subdivision of such land or any further significant development on such lands, except as permitted by the guidelines published under section 102(b)(1).


“(2) Upon receipt of the lands and easement described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall transfer to the Jackson Laboratory the lands depicted on the map as 8 DBH and 9 DBH. Any disparity in the fair market value of the lands and easement referred to in paragraph (1) and the lands described in the preceding sentence shall be equalized as provided in section 102(d)(1).


“(k) For purposes of subsection (a)(2), the construction of one single family residence on Burnt Porcupine Island by the owner of the Island shall not be treated as detrimental to the scenic, historic, cultural, or other values for which the park was established if, before such construction commences, the Secretary has reviewed and approved plans for the size, location and architectural design of the structure.

