§ 460qqq–3. Management(a) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall manage the Conservation Area—(1) in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances the resources of the Conservation Area; and

(2) in accordance with—(A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and

(B) other applicable law, including this Act.



(b) Management plan(1) In generalNot later than 3 years after November 6, 2002, the Secretary, in consultation with the State, the city of Henderson, the County, and any other interested persons, shall develop a management plan for the Conservation Area.


(2) RequirementsThe management plan shall—(A) describe the appropriate uses and management of the Conservation Area;

(B)(i) authorize the use of motorized vehicles in the Conservation Area—(I) for installing, repairing, maintaining, and reconstructing water development projects, including guzzlers, that would enhance the Conservation Area by promoting healthy, viable, and more naturally distributed wildlife populations; and

(II) subject to any limitations that are not more restrictive than the limitations on such uses authorized in wilderness areas under section 208; 11 See References in Text note below. and


(ii) include or provide recommendations on ways of minimizing the visual impacts of such activities on the Conservation Area;


(C) include a plan for litter cleanup and public lands awareness campaign on public lands in and around the Conservation Area; and

(D) include a recommendation on the location for a right-of-way for a rural roadway to provide the city of Henderson with access to the Conservation Area, in accordance with the application numbered N–65874.



(c) UsesThe Secretary shall allow only such uses of the Conservation Area that the Secretary determines will further the purpose described in section 460qqq of this title.


(d) Motorized vehiclesExcept as needed for administrative purposes or to respond to an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles in the Conservation Area shall be permitted only on roads and trails designated for the use of motorized vehicles by the management plan developed under subsection (b) of this section.


(e) Withdrawal(1) In generalSubject to valid existing rights, all public land in the Conservation Area is withdrawn from—(A) all forms of entry and appropriation under the public land laws;

(B) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and

(C) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.


(2) Additional landNotwithstanding any other provision of law, if the Secretary acquires mineral or other interests in a parcel of land within the Conservation Area after November 6, 2002, the parcel is withdrawn from operation of the laws referred to in paragraph (1) on the date of acquisition of the land.



(f) Hunting, fishing, and trapping(1) In generalNothing in this subchapter affects the jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and wildlife, including hunting, fishing, and trapping in the Conservation Area.


(2) Limitations(A) RegulationsThe Secretary may designate by regulation areas in which, and establish periods during which, for reasons of public safety, administration, or compliance with applicable laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the Conservation Area.


(B) ConsultationExcept in emergencies, the Secretary shall consult with the appropriate State agency before promulgating regulations under subparagraph (A) that close a portion of the Conservation Area to hunting, fishing, or trapping.




(g) No buffer zones(1) In generalThe establishment of the Conservation Area shall not create an express or implied protective perimeter or buffer zone around the Conservation Area.


(2) Private landIf the use of, or conduct of an activity on, private land that shares a boundary with the Conservation Area is consistent with applicable law, nothing in this subchapter concerning the establishment of the Conservation Area shall prohibit or limit the use or conduct of the activity.



(Pub. L. 107–282, title VI, § 605, Nov. 6, 2002, 116 Stat. 2010.)


References in TextThe Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(A), is Pub. L. 94–579, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2743, which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of Title 43 and Tables.
This Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(B), is Pub. L. 107–282, Nov. 6, 2002, 116 Stat. 1994, known as the Clark County Conservation of Public Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 460qqq of this title and Tables.
Section 208, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(B)(i)(II), is section 208 of Pub. L. 107–282, Nov. 6, 2002, 116 Stat. 2005, which is not classified to the Code.


