§ 4840. Final settlement of officer’s accounts
Before final payment upon discharge may be made to an officer of the Army who has been accountable or responsible for public property, he must obtain a certificate of nonindebtedness to the United States from each officer to whom he was accountable or responsible for property. He must also make an affidavit, certified by his commanding officer to be correct, that he is not accountable or responsible for property to any other officer. An officer who has not been responsible for public property must make an affidavit of that fact, certified by his commanding officer. Compliance with this section warrants the final payment of the officer concerned.
(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 274.)











Historical and Revision Notes


Revised sectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


484010:878.Jan. 12, 1899, ch. 46, § 2, 30 Stat. 784.


The words “Before final payment upon discharge may be made” are substituted for the words “shall warrant their final payment”. The words “at any time” are omitted as surplusage. The word “must” is substituted for the words “shall be required * * * to”. The words “He must also make” are substituted for the words “accompanied by”. The words “from each officer to whom he was accountable or responsible for property” are substituted for the words “from only such of the bureaus of the Department of the Army to which the property for which they were accountable or responsible pertains”, since there is no longer a bureau structure within the Department of the Army. The words “that he is not accountable or responsible for property to any other officer” are substituted for the words “accompanied by the affidavits of officers, of nonaccountability or nonresponsibility to other bureaus of the Department of the Army”, for the same reason. The reference to certificates from the General Accounting Office is omitted as obsolete. The last sentence is substituted for 10:878 (last 18 words). The last proviso of section 2 of the act of January 12, 1899, ch. 46, 30 Stat. 784, is not contained in 10:878. It is also omitted from the revised section, since it related to authority of mustering officers to administer oaths and the general authority to administer oaths is now contained in section 936 of this title (article 136 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).


