§ 430f–5. Siege and Battle of Corinth(a) PurposeThe purpose of this section is to provide for a center for the interpretation of the Siege and Battle of Corinth and other Civil War actions in the Region and to enhance public understanding of the significance of the Corinth Campaign in the Civil War relative to the Western theater of operations, in cooperation with State or local governmental entities and private organizations and individuals.


(b) Acquisition of property at Corinth, MississippiThe Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this title 11 See References in Text note below. as the “Secretary”) shall acquire by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, such land and interests in land in the vicinity of the Corinth Battlefield, in the State of Mississippi, as the Secretary determines to be necessary for the construction of an interpretive center to commemorate and interpret the 1862 Civil War Siege and Battle of Corinth.


(c) Publicly owned landLand and interests in land owned by the State of Mississippi or a political subdivision of the State of Mississippi may be acquired only by donation.


(d) Interpretive center and marking(1) Interpretive centerThe Secretary shall construct, operate, and maintain on the property acquired under subsection (b) of this section a center for the interpretation of the Siege and Battle of Corinth and associated historical events for the benefit of the public.


(2) MarkingThe Secretary may mark sites associated with the Siege and Battle of Corinth National Historic Landmark, as designated on May 6, 1991, if the sites are determined by the Secretary to be protected by State or local governmental agencies.


(3) AdministrationThe land and interests in land acquired, and the facilities constructed and maintained pursuant to this section, shall be administered by the Secretary as a part of Shiloh National Military Park, subject to the appropriate laws (including regulations) applicable to the Park, sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and sections 461 to 467 of this title.



(e) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated $6,000,000 for development to carry out this section.


(Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VI, § 602, Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4171.)


References in TextThis title, referred to in subsec. (b), is title VI of div. I of Pub. L. 104–333, which enacted this section, section 469k of this title, provisions set out as a note under section 1a–5 of this title, and provisions listed in a table of National Battlefield Sites set out under section 461 of this title.


