§ 649. Office of International Trade(a) Establishment(1) OfficeThere is established within the Administration an Office of International Trade which shall implement the programs pursuant to this section for the primary purposes of increasing—(A) the number of small business concerns that export; and

(B) the volume of exports by small business concerns.


(2) Associate AdministratorThe head of the Office shall be the Associate Administrator for International Trade, who shall be responsible to the Administrator.



(b) Trade distribution networkThe Associate Administrator, working in close cooperation with the Secretary of Commerce, the United States Trade Representative, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of State, the President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, the President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, Director 11 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “the”. of the United States Trade and Development Agency, and other relevant Federal agencies, small business development centers engaged in export promotion efforts, Export Assistance Centers, regional and district offices of the Administration, the small business community, and relevant State and local export promotion programs, shall—(1) maintain a distribution network, using regional and district offices of the Administration, the small business development center network, networks of women’s business centers, the Service Corps of Retired Executives authorized by section 637(b)(1) of this title, and Export Assistance Centers, for programs relating to—(A) trade promotion;

(B) trade finance;

(C) trade adjustment assistance;

(D) trade remedy assistance; and

(E) trade data collection;


(2) aggressively market the programs described in paragraph (1) and disseminate information, including computerized marketing data, to small business concerns on exporting trends, market-specific growth, industry trends, and international prospects for exports;

(3) promote export assistance programs through the district and regional offices of the Administration, the small business development center network, Export Assistance Centers, the network of women’s business centers, chapters of the Service Corps of Retired Executives, State and local export promotion programs, and partners in the private sector; and

(4) give preference in hiring or approving the transfer of any employee into the Office or to a position described in subsection (c)(9) to otherwise qualified applicants who are fluent in a language in addition to English, to—(A) accompany small business concerns on foreign trade missions; and

(B) translate documents, interpret conversations, and facilitate multilingual transactions, including by providing referral lists for translation services, if required.



(c) Promotion of sales opportunitiesThe Associate Administrator shall promote sales opportunities for small business goods and services abroad. To accomplish this objective the office shall—(1) establish annual goals for the Office relating to—(A) enhancing the exporting capability of small business concerns and small manufacturers;

(B) facilitating technology transfers;

(C) enhancing programs and services to assist small business concerns and small manufacturers to compete effectively and efficiently in foreign markets;

(D) increasing the ability of small business concerns to access capital; and

(E) disseminating information concerning Federal, State, and private programs and initiatives;


(2) in cooperation with the Department of Commerce, other relevant agencies, regional and local Administration offices, the Small Business Development Center network, and State programs, develop a mechanism for—(A) identifying subsectors of the small business community with strong export potential;

(B) identifying areas of demand in foreign markets;

(C) prescreening foreign buyers for commercial and credit purposes; and

(D) assisting in increasing international marketing by disseminating relevant information regarding market leads, linking potential sellers and buyers, and catalyzing the formation of joint ventures, where appropriate;


(3) in cooperation with the Department of Commerce, actively assist small business concerns in forming and using export trading companies, export management companies and research and development pools authorized under section 638 of this title;

(4) work in conjunction with other Federal agencies, regional and district offices of the Administration, the small business development center network, and the private sector to identify and publicize translation services, including those available through colleges and universities participating in the small business development center program;

(5) work closely with the Department of Commerce and other relevant Federal agencies to—(A) collect, analyze and periodically update relevant data regarding the small business share of United States exports and the nature of State exports (including the production of Gross State Product figures) and disseminate that data to the public and to Congress;

(B) make recommendations to the Secretary of Commerce and to Congress regarding revision of the North American Industry Classification System codes to encompass industries currently overlooked and to create North American Industry Classification System codes for export trading companies and export management companies;

(C) improve the utility and accessibility of existing export promotion programs for small business concerns; and

(D) increase the accessibility of the Export Trading Company contact facilitation service;


(6) make available to the small business community information regarding conferences on exporting and international trade sponsored by the public and private sector;

(7) provide small business concerns with access to up to date and complete export information by—(A) making available, at the regional and district offices of the Administration through cooperation with the Department of Commerce, export information, including, but not limited to, the worldwide information and trade system and world trade data reports;

(B) maintaining a list of financial institutions that finance export operations;

(C) maintaining a directory of all Federal, regional, State and private sector programs that provide export information and assistance to small business concerns; and

(D) preparing and publishing such reports as it determines to be necessary concerning market conditions, sources of financing, export promotion programs, and other information pertaining to the needs of small business exporting firms so as to insure that the maximum information is made available to small business concerns in a readily usable form;


(8) encourage through cooperation with the Department of Commerce, greater small business participation in trade fairs, shows, missions, and other domestic and overseas export development activities of the Department of Commerce;

(9) facilitate decentralized delivery of export information and assistance to small business concerns by assigning primary responsibility for export development to one individual in each district office and providing each Administration regional office with a full-time export development specialist, who shall—(A) assist small business concerns in obtaining export information and assistance from other Federal departments and agencies;

(B) maintain a directory of all programs which provide export information and assistance to small business concerns in the region;

(C) encourage financial institutions to develop and expand programs for export financing;

(D) provide advice to personnel of the Administration involved in making loans, loan guarantees, and extensions and revolving lines of credit, and providing other forms of assistance to small business concerns engaged in exports;

(E) within one hundred and eighty days of their appointment, participate in training programs designed by the Administrator, in conjunction with the Department of Commerce and other Federal departments and agencies, to study export programs and to examine the needs of small business concerns for export information and assistance;

(F) participate, jointly with employees of the Office, in an annual training program that focuses on current small business needs for exporting; and

(G) develop and conduct training programs for exporters and lenders, in cooperation with the Export Assistance Centers, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Agriculture, small business development centers, women’s business centers, the Export-Import Bank of the United States, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, and other relevant Federal agencies;


(10) make available on the website of the Administration the name and contact information of each individual described in paragraph (9);

(11) carry out a nationwide marketing effort using technology, online resources, training, and other strategies to promote exporting as a business development opportunity for small business concerns;

(12) disseminate information to the small business community through regional and district offices of the Administration, the small business development center network, Export Assistance Centers, the network of women’s business centers, chapters of the Service Corps of Retired Executives authorized by section 637(b)(1) of this title, State and local export promotion programs, and partners in the private sector regarding exporting trends, market-specific growth, industry trends, and prospects for exporting; and

(13) establish and carry out training programs for the staff of the regional and district offices of the Administration and resource partners of the Administration on export promotion and providing assistance relating to exports.


(d) Export financing programs(1) In generalThe Associate Administrator shall work in cooperation with the Export-Import Bank of the United States, the Department of Commerce, other relevant Federal agencies, and the States to develop a program through which export specialists in the regional offices of the Administration, regional and local loan officers, and Small Business Development Center personnel can facilitate the access of small businesses to relevant export financing programs of the Export-Import Bank of the United States and to export and pre-export financing programs available from the Administration and the private sector.


(2) Trade finance specialistTo accomplish the goal established under paragraph (1), the Associate Administrator shall—(A) designate at least 1 individual within the Administration as a trade finance specialist to oversee international loan programs and assist Administration employees with trade finance issues; and

(B) work in cooperation with the Export-Import Bank and the small business community, including small business trade associations, to—(i) aggressively market existing Administration export financing and pre-export financing programs;

(ii) identify financing available under various Export-Import Bank programs, and aggressively market those programs to small businesses;

(iii) assist in the development of financial intermediaries and facilitate the access of those intermediaries to existing financing programs;

(iv) promote greater participation by private financial institutions, particularly those institutions already participating in loan programs under this chapter, in export finance; and

(v) provide for the participation of appropriate Administration personnel in training programs conducted by the Export-Import Bank.




(e) Trade remediesThe Associate Administrator shall—(1) work in cooperation with other Federal agencies and the private sector to counsel small businesses with respect to initiating and participating in any proceedings relating to the administration of the United States trade laws; and

(2) work with the Department of Commerce, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, and the International Trade Commission to increase access to trade remedy proceedings for small businesses.


(f) Reporting requirementThe Associate Administrator shall submit an annual report to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives that contains—(1) a description of the progress of the Office in implementing the requirements of this section;

(2) a detailed account of the results of export growth activities of the Administration, including the activities of each district and regional office of the Administration, based on the performance measures described in subsection (i); 22 So in original. Probably should be a reference to subsection (j).

(3) an estimate of the total number of jobs created or retained as a result of export assistance provided by the Administration and resource partners of the Administration;

(4) for any travel by the staff of the Office, the destination of such travel and the benefits to the Administration and to small business concerns resulting from such travel; and

(5) a description of the participation by the Office in trade negotiations.


(g) StudiesThe Associate Administrator, in cooperation, where appropriate, with the Division of Economic Research of the Office of Advocacy, and with other Federal agencies, shall undertake studies regarding the following issues and shall report to the Committees on Small Business of the House of Representatives and the Senate, and to other relevant Committees of the House and Senate within 6 months after August 23, 1988, with specific recommendations on—(1) the viability and cost of establishing an annual, competitive small business export incentive program similar to the Small Business Innovation Research program and alternative methods of structuring such a program;

(2) methods of streamlining trade remedy proceedings to increase access for, and reduce expenses incurred by, smaller firms;

(3) methods of improving the current small business foreign sales corporation tax incentives and providing small businesses with greater benefits from this initiative;

(4) methods of identifying potential export markets for United States small businesses; maintaining and disseminating current foreign market data; and devising a comprehensive export marketing strategy for United States small business goods and services, and shall include data on the volume and dollar amount of goods and services, identified by type, imported by United States trading partners over the past 10 years; and

(5) the results of a survey of major United States trading partners to identify the domestic policies, programs and incentives, and the private sector initiatives, which exist to encourage the formation and growth of small business.


(h) Discharge of international trade responsibilities of AdministrationThe Administrator shall ensure that—(1) the responsibilities of the Administration regarding international trade are carried out by the Associate Administrator;

(2) the Associate Administrator has sufficient resources to carry out such responsibilities; and

(3) the Associate Administrator has direct supervision and control over—(A) the staff of the Office; and

(B) any employee of the Administration whose principal duty station is an Export Assistance Center, or any successor entity.



(i) Export and trade counseling(1) DefinitionIn this subsection—(A) the term “lead small business development center” means a small business development center that has received a grant from the Administration; and

(B) the term “lead women’s business center” means a women’s business center that has received a grant from the Administration.


(2) Certification programThe Administrator shall establish an export and trade counseling certification program to certify employees of lead small business development centers and lead women’s business centers in providing export assistance to small business concerns.


(3) Number of certified employeesThe Administrator shall ensure that the number of employees of each lead small business development center who are certified in providing export assistance is not less than the lesser of—(A) 5; or

(B) 10 percent of the total number of employees of the lead small business development center.


(4) Reimbursement for certification(A) In generalSubject to the availability of appropriations, the Administrator shall reimburse a lead small business development center or a lead women’s business center for costs relating to the certification of an employee of the lead small business center or lead women’s business center in providing export assistance under the program established under paragraph (2).


(B) LimitationThe total amount reimbursed by the Administrator under subparagraph (A) may not exceed $350,000 in any fiscal year.




(j) Performance measures(1) In generalThe Associate Administrator shall develop performance measures for the Administration to support export growth goals for the activities of the Office under this section that include—(A) the number of small business concerns that—(i) receive assistance from the Administration;

(ii) had not exported goods or services before receiving the assistance described in clause (i); and

(iii) export goods or services;


(B) the number of small business concerns receiving assistance from the Administration that export goods or services to a market outside the United States into which the small business concern did not export before receiving the assistance;

(C) export revenues by small business concerns assisted by programs of the Administration;

(D) the number of small business concerns referred to an Export Assistance Center or a small business development center by the staff of the Office;

(E) the number of small business concerns referred to the Administration by an Export Assistance Center or a small business development center; and

(F) the number of small business concerns referred to the Department of Commerce, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of State, the Export-Import Bank of the United States, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, or the United States Trade and Development Agency by the staff of the Office, an Export Assistance Center, or a small business development center.


(2) Joint performance measuresThe Associate Administrator shall develop joint performance measures for the district offices of the Administration and the Export Assistance Centers that include the number of export loans made under—(A) section 636(a)(16) of this title;

(B) the Export Working Capital Program established under section 636(a)(14) of this title;

(C) the Preferred Lenders Program, as defined in section 636(a)(2)(C)(ii) of this title; and

(D) the export express program established under section 636(a)(34) of this title.


(3) Consistency of trackingThe Associate Administrator, in coordination with the departments and agencies that are represented on the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee established under section 4727 of this title and the small business development center network, shall develop a system to track exports by small business concerns, including information relating to the performance measures developed under paragraph (1), that is consistent with systems used by the departments and agencies and the network.



(k) Export Assistance Centers(1) Export finance specialists(A) Minimum number of export finance specialistsOn and after the date that is 90 days after September 27, 2010, the Administrator, in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, shall ensure that the number of export finance specialists is not less than the number of such employees so assigned on January 1, 2003.


(B) Export finance specialists assigned to each region of the AdministrationOn and after the date that is 2 years after September 27, 2010, the Administrator, in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, shall ensure that there are not fewer than 3 export finance specialists in each region of the Administration.



(2) Placement of export finance specialists(A) PriorityThe Administrator shall give priority, to the maximum extent practicable, to placing employees of the Administration at any Export Assistance Center that—(i) had an Administration employee assigned to the Export Assistance Center before January 2003; and

(ii) has not had an Administration employee assigned to the Export Assistance Center during the period beginning January 2003, and ending on September 27, 2010, either through retirement or reassignment.


(B) Needs of exportersThe Administrator shall, to the maximum extent practicable, strategically assign Administration employees to Export Assistance Centers, based on the needs of exporters.


(C) Rule of constructionNothing in this subsection may be construed to require the Administrator to reassign or remove an export finance specialist who is assigned to an Export Assistance Center on September 27, 2010.



(3) GoalsThe Associate Administrator shall work with the Department of Commerce, the Export-Import Bank of the United States, and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation to establish shared annual goals for the Export Assistance Centers.


(4) OversightThe Associate Administrator shall designate an individual within the Administration to oversee all activities conducted by Administration employees assigned to Export Assistance Centers.



(l) DefinitionsIn this section—(1) the term “Associate Administrator” means the Associate Administrator for International Trade described in subsection (a)(2);

(2) the term “Export Assistance Center” means a one-stop shop for United States exporters established by the United States and Foreign Commercial Service of the Department of Commerce pursuant to section 4721(b)(8) of this title;

(3) the term “export finance specialist” means a full-time equivalent employee of the Office assigned to an Export Assistance Center to carry out the duties described in subsection (e); and

(4) the term “Office” means the Office of International Trade established under subsection (a)(1).


(Pub. L. 85–536, § 2[22], as added Pub. L. 96–481, title I, § 113(a), Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2323; amended Pub. L. 100–418, title VIII, § 8003, Aug. 23, 1988, 102 Stat. 1554; Pub. L. 111–240, title I, §§ 1203(a), (c), 1204(a), 1205(a), Sept. 27, 2010, 124 Stat. 2521, 2522, 2527.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 649, act July 30, 1953, ch. 282, title II, § 220, 67 Stat. 240, which required a fair charge for use of Government-owned property, was omitted as superseded by section 643 of this title. See Codification note set out under section 631 of this title.

Amendments2010—Pub. L. 111–240, § 1203(a)(1), inserted section catchline.
Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1203(a), inserted subsec. (a) heading, designated existing provisions as par. (1), inserted par. (1) heading, substituted “for the primary purposes of increasing—” for period at end, added subpars. (A) and (B) of par. (1), and added par. (2).
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(1), added subsec. (b) and struck out former subsec. (b) which related to development of distribution network, marketing of programs and dissemination of information, and bilingual job applicants.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(A), inserted heading and substituted “The Associate Administrator” for “The Office” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(C), added par. (1). Former par. (1) redesignated (2).
Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(D), substituted “mechanism for—
“(A) identifying subsectors of the small business community with strong export potential;
“(B) identifying areas of demand in foreign markets;
“(C) prescreening foreign buyers for commercial and credit purposes; and
“(D) assisting”
for “mechanism for (A) identifying sub-sectors of the small business community with strong export potential; (B) identifying areas of demand in foreign markets; (C) prescreening foreign buyers for commercial and credit purposes; and (D) assisting”.
Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(B), redesignated par. (1) as (2). Former par. (2) redesignated (3).
Subsec. (c)(3). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(E), substituted “assist small business concerns in forming and using” for “assist small businesses in the formation and utilization of”.
Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(B), redesignated par. (2) as (3). Former par. (3) redesignated (4).
Subsec. (c)(4). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(F), substituted “district” for “local”, “small business development center network” for “Small Business Development Center network”, and “small business development center program” for “Small Business Development Center Program” and struck out “existing” before “translation”.
Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(B), redesignated par. (3) as (4). Former par. (4) redesignated (5).
Subsec. (c)(5). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(B), redesignated par. (4) as (5). Former par. (5) redesignated (6).
Subsec. (c)(5)(A). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(G)(i), substituted “Gross State Product” for “Gross State Produce”.
Subsec. (c)(5)(B). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(G)(ii), substituted “North American Industry Classification System” for “SIC” in two places.
Subsec. (c)(5)(C). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(G)(iii), substituted “small business concerns” for “small businesses”.
Subsec. (c)(6). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(H), substituted semicolon for period at end.
Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(B), redesignated par. (5) as (6). Former par. (6) redesignated (7).
Subsec. (c)(7). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(I)(i)(II), (v), substituted “small business concerns” for “small businesses” and “up to date” for “current” in introductory provisions.
Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(I)(i)(I), which directed amendment of introductory provisions by inserting “concerns” after “small business”, could not be executed because the words “small business” did not appear.
Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(B), redesignated par. (6) as (7). Former par. (7) redesignated (8).
Subsec. (c)(7)(A). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(I)(ii), substituted “regional and district offices of the Administration” for “Administration’s regional offices”.
Subsec. (c)(7)(B). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(I)(iii), struck out “current” before “list”.
Subsec. (c)(7)(C). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(I)(iv), (v), struck out “current” before “directory” and substituted “small business concerns” for “small businesses”.
Subsec. (c)(7)(D). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(I)(v), substituted “small business concerns” for “small businesses”.
Subsec. (c)(8). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(J), struck out “and” at end. The amendment was made to reflect the probable intent of Congress, in the absence of quotation marks around the word “and” in the directory language.
Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(B), redesignated par. (7) as (8). Former par. (8) redesignated (9).
Subsec. (c)(9). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(K)(i), (vi), in introductory provisions, substituted “small business concerns” for “small businesses” and “individual in each district office and providing each Administration regional office with a full-time export development specialist, who” for “person in each district office. Such specialists” and struck out “full-time export development specialists to each Administration regional office and assigning” before “primary responsibility”.
Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(B), redesignated par. (8) as (9).
Subsec. (c)(9)(A). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(K)(vi), substituted “small business concerns” for “small businesses”.
Subsec. (c)(9)(B). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(K)(vi), substituted “small business concerns” for “small businesses”.
Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(K)(ii)(II), which directed amendment by substituting “in” for “with”, was executed by making the substitution for “within”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(K)(ii)(I), struck out “current” before “directory”.
Subsec. (c)(9)(D). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(K)(iii), (vi), substituted “personnel of the Administration involved in making” for “Administration personnel involved in granting” and “small business concerns” for “small businesses” and struck out “and” at end.
Subsec. (c)(9)(E). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(K)(iv), substituted “the needs of small business concerns” for “small businesses’ needs” and semicolon for period at end.
Subsec. (c)(9)(F), (G). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(K)(v), added subpars. (F) and (G).
Subsec. (c)(10) to (13). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(2)(L), added pars. (10) to (13).
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(3), inserted subsec. (d) heading, designated first sentence of existing provisions as par. (1), inserted par. (1) heading, substituted “The Associate Administrator” for “The Office” in par. (1), designated second sentence of existing provisions as par. (2), inserted par. (2) heading, substituted “To accomplish the goal established under paragraph (1), the Associate Administrator shall—” for “To accomplish this goal, the Office shall work” in par. (2), added subpar. (A) and inserted “(B) work” before “in cooperation”, redesignated former pars. (1) to (5) as cls. (i) to (v), respectively, of subpar. (B) of par. (2), and realigned margins.
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(4), inserted heading and substituted “The Associate Administrator” for “The Office” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(5), amended subsec. (f) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Office shall report to the Committees on Small Business of the House of Representatives and the Senate on an annual basis as to its progress in implementing the requirements under this section.”
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(6), inserted heading and substituted “The Associate Administrator” for “The Office” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1203(c), added subsec. (h).
Subsecs. (i), (j). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1204(a)(7), added subsecs. (i) and (j).
Subsecs. (k), (l). Pub. L. 111–240, § 1205(a), added subsecs. (k) and (l).
1988—Subsecs. (b) to (g). Pub. L. 100–418 added subsec. (b), redesignated former subsec. (b) as (c) and added pars. (1) to (5) and redesignated former pars. (1) to (3) as (6) to (8), respectively, and added subsecs. (d) to (g).


Change of Name
Committee on Small Business of Senate changed to Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of Senate. See Senate Resolution No. 123, One Hundred Seventh Congress, June 29, 2001.

Effective DatePub. L. 96–481, title I, § 113(b), Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2324, provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall take effect on October 1, 1980, or the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 21, 1980], whichever occurs later.”


Short TitleFor short title of part B of title I of Pub. L. 96–481 as the Small Business Export Expansion Act of 1980, see Short Title of 1980 Amendment note set out under section 631 of this title.

ImplementationPub. L. 111–240, title I, § 1203(e), Sept. 27, 2010, 124 Stat. 2522, provided that: “Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 27, 2010], the Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall appoint an Associate Administrator for International Trade under section 22(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 649(a)), as added by this section.”


Study and Report on Filling Gaps in High-and-Low-Export Volume AreasPub. L. 111–240, title I, § 1205(b), Sept. 27, 2010, 124 Stat. 2529, provided that:
“(1) Study and report.—Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 27, 2010], and every 2 years thereafter, the Administrator shall—“(A) conduct a study of—“(i) the volume of exports for each State;

“(ii) the availability of export finance specialists in each State;

“(iii) the number of exporters in each State that are small business concerns;

“(iv) the percentage of exporters in each State that are small business concerns;

“(v) the change, if any, in the number of exporters that are small business concerns in each State—“(I) for the first study conducted under this subparagraph, during the 10-year period ending on the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 27, 2010]; and

“(II) for each subsequent study, during the 10-year period ending on the date the study is commenced;


“(vi) the total value of the exports in each State by small business concerns;

“(vii) the percentage of the total volume of exports in each State that is attributable to small business concerns; and

“(viii) the change, if any, in the percentage of the total volume of exports in each State that is attributable to small business concerns—“(I) for the first study conducted under this subparagraph, during the 10-year period ending on the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 27, 2010]; and

“(II) for each subsequent study, during the 10-year period ending on the date the study is commenced; and



“(B) submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report containing—“(i) the results of the study under subparagraph (A);

“(ii) to the extent practicable, a recommendation regarding how to eliminate gaps between the supply of and demand for export finance specialists in the 15 States that have the greatest volume of exports, based upon the most recent data available from the Department of Commerce;

“(iii) to the extent practicable, a recommendation regarding how to eliminate gaps between the supply of and demand for export finance specialists in the 15 States that have the lowest volume of exports, based upon the most recent data available from the Department of Commerce; and

“(iv) such additional information as the Administrator determines is appropriate.



“(2) Definition.—In this subsection, the term ‘export finance specialist’ has the meaning given that term in section 22(l) of the Small Business Act [15 U.S.C. 649(l)], as added by this title.”



[For definitions of “Administrator” and “small business concern” as used in section 1205(b) of Pub. L. 111–240, set out above, see section 1001 of Pub. L. 111–240, set out as a note under section 632 of this title.]

Congressional Declaration of PolicyPub. L. 96–481, title I, § 111, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2323, provided that:
“(a) The Congress finds and declares that—“(1) a strong export policy is essential to the health and well-being of the United States economy;

“(2) exports of goods and services account for one out of every six jobs in the manufacturing sector and 10 per centum of the gross national product.

“(3) every billion dollars in new exports is estimated to provide forty thousand jobs;

“(4) there is increased and fierce competition in international markets to United States goods and services;

“(5) small businesses account for no more than 10 per centum of all United States export sales;

“(6) Federal Government programs are not sufficiently responsive to the needs of small business for export education and development of overseas marketing opportunities necessary to insure that small businesses realize their potential; and

“(7) it is in the national interest to systematically and consistently promote and encourage small business participation in international markets.


“(b) It is therefore the purpose of this part [enacting this section, amending section 636 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under sections 631 and 649 of this title] to encourage and promote small business exporting by—“(1) providing educational and marketing assistance to small businesses;

“(2) insuring better access to export information and assistance for small businesses by upgrading and expanding the export development programs and services of the Department of Commerce and the Small Business Administration; and

“(3) promoting the competitive viability of such firms in export trade and encouraging increased tourism in the United States by creating a program to provide limited financial, technical, and management assistance as may be necessary.”






