§ 460ff–3. Administration(a) Provisions applicable; utilization of authorities for conservation and management of wildlife and natural resourcesThe Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with the provisions of sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, as amended and supplemented. In the administration of the park, the Secretary may utilize such statutory authority available to him for the conservation and management of wildlife and natural resources as he deems appropriate to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.


(b) Federal-State cooperative agreements for police and fire protectionThe Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the State of Ohio, or any political subdivision thereof, for the rendering, on a reimbursable basis, of rescue, firefighting, and law enforcement services and cooperative assistance by nearby law enforcement and fire preventive agencies.


(c) Water resource developments; restoration of vegetative cover to eliminate erosion(1) The authority of the Secretary of the Army to undertake or contribute to water resource development, including erosion control and flood control, on land or waters within the park shall be exercised in accordance with plans which are mutually acceptable to the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Army and which are consistent with both the purposes of this subchapter and the purposes of existing statutes dealing with water and related land resource development.

(2) The Secretary is authorized and directed, in cooperation with the Secretary of Agriculture, the State of Ohio, and affected local governments, to undertake a program of and treatment for the purpose of restoring suitable vegetative cover to substantially eliminate erosion from all lands, public and private, within the authorized boundaries of the park. In the case of any private lands, within such authorized boundaries such treatment may be undertaken only with the consent of the owner thereof and shall be contingent upon assurances that such land treatment will be maintained by the owner for a period of not less than ten years. The Secretary shall, in conjunction with such program, take such actions as may be required to correct areas of ecological degradation which create hazards to health and safety.


(d) Inventory and evaluation of historical, cultural and architectural sites and structures; programs for preservation, restoration, interpretation and utilizationThe Secretary, in consultation with the Governor of the State of Ohio, shall inventory and evaluate all sites and structures within the park having present and potential historical, cultural, or architectural significance and shall provide for appropriate programs for the preservation, restoration, interpretation, and utilization of them.


(e) Donations for services and facilitiesNotwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary is authorized to accept donations of funds, property, or services from individuals, foundations, corporations, or public entities for the purposes of providing services and facilities which he deems consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.


(f) Zoning laws and ordinances; consultation and assistance with local government or intergovernmental organization in establishment; objectives; technical aidThe Secretary may, on his own initiative, or at the request of any local government (or intergovernmental organization) having jurisdiction over land located within or adjacent to the park, assist and consult with the appropriate officers and employees of such local government (or intergovernmental organization) in establishing zoning laws or ordinances which will assist in achieving the purposes of this subchapter. In providing assistance pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary shall endeavor to obtain provisions in such zoning laws or ordinances which—(1) have the effect of prohibiting the commercial and industrial use (other than a use for commercial farms and orchards) of all real property adjacent to the park;

(2) aid in preserving the character of the park by appropriate restrictions on the use of real property in the vicinity including, but not limited to, restrictions upon: building and construction of all types; signs and billboards; the burning of cover; cutting of timber (except tracts managed for sustained yield); removal of topsoil, sand, or gravel; dumping, storage, or piling of refuse; or any other use which would detract from the aesthetic character of the park; and

(3) have the effect of providing that the Secretary shall receive notice of any hearing for the purpose of granting a variance and any variance granted under, and of any exception made to, the application of such law or ordinance.


Assistance under this subsection may include payments for technical aid.

(Pub. L. 93–555, § 4, Dec. 27, 1974, 88 Stat. 1787; Pub. L. 95–625, title III, § 315(e), Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3483; Pub. L. 99–658, title I, § 104(j)(1), Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3677; Pub. L. 106–291, title I, § 149(c)(2), Oct. 11, 2000, 114 Stat. 956.)

Amendments2000—Pub. L. 106–291 substituted “park” for “recreation area” wherever appearing.
1986—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 99–658 designated existing provision as par. (1) and added par. (2).
1978—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 95–625 inserted in introductory text “(or intergovernmental organization)” after “local government” in two places, and last sentence providing that assistance may include payments for technical aid.

Appropriations for RoadsPub. L. 102–154, title I, Nov. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 996, as amended by Pub. L. 106–291, title I, § 149(b), Oct. 11, 2000, 114 Stat. 956, provided in part that: “appropriations for maintenance and improvement of roads within the boundary of the Cuyahoga Valley National Park shall be available for such purposes without regard to whether title to such road rights-of-way is in the United States”.



