§ 1447e. Report on research program(a) Preparation and submission of reportEach Board receiving a grant under section 1447d of this title shall, not later than 2 years after the approval of its comprehensive plan under section 1447d of this title and at 2-year intervals thereafter, prepare and submit to the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency a report describing—(1) the findings and conclusions of research projects conducted in the region;

(2) recommendations for improvements in the design or implementation of programs for the protection of the marine environment; and

(3) available data and information concerning ecosystem health within the region.


(b) Transmittal to CongressUpon receipt of a report prepared by a Board under subsection (a) of this section, the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall transmit a copy of such report to the Committees on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and to the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives.


(Pub. L. 92–532, title IV, § 406, as added Pub. L. 101–593, title III, § 301, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 2969.)


Abolition of House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives abolished and its jurisdiction transferred by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995. Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Science of House of Representatives in case of provisions relating to marine research by section 1(b)(3) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress. Committee on Science of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007. Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.


