“SEC. 1203. WITHDRAWAL OF UNITED STATES GROUND FORCES FROM REPUBLIC OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA.“(a) Limitation.—No funds appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 1998 or any subsequent fiscal year may be used for the deployment of any United States ground combat forces in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina after June 30, 1998, unless the President, not later than May 15, 1998, and after consultation with the bipartisan leadership of the two Houses of Congress, transmits to Congress a certification—“(1) that the continued presence of United States ground combat forces, after June 30, 1998, in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is required in order to meet the national security interests of the United States; and

“(2) that after June 30, 1998, it will remain United States policy that United States ground forces will not serve as, or be used as, civil police in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.


“(b) Report.—The President shall submit with the certification under subsection (a) a report that includes the following:“(1) The reasons why that presence is in the national security interest of the United States.

“(2) The number of United States military personnel to be deployed in and around the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other areas of the former Yugoslavia after that date.

“(3) The expected duration of any such deployment.

“(4) The mission and objectives of the United States Armed Forces to be deployed in and around the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other areas of the former Yugoslavia after June 30, 1998.

“(5) The exit strategy of such forces.

“(6) The incremental costs associated with any such deployment.

“(7) The effect of such deployment on the morale, retention, and effectiveness of United States armed forces.

“(8) A description of the forces from other nations involved in a follow-on mission, shown on a nation-by-nation basis.

“(9) A description of the command and control arrangement established for United States forces involved in a follow-on mission.

“(10) An assessment of the expected threats to United States forces involved in a follow-on mission.

“(11) The plan for rotating units and personnel to and from the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina during a follow-on mission, including the level of participation by reserve component units and personnel.

“(12) The mission statement and operational goals of the United States forces involved in a follow-on mission.


“(c) Request for Supplemental Appropriations.—The President shall transmit to Congress with a certification under subsection (a) a supplemental appropriations request for the Department of Defense for such amounts as are necessary for the costs of any continued deployment beyond June 30, 1998.

“(d) Construction With President’s Constitutional Authority.—Nothing in this section shall be deemed to restrict the authority of the President under the Constitution to protect the lives of United States citizens.

“(e) Construction With Appropriations Provision.—The provisions of this section are enacted, and shall be applied, as supplemental to (and not in lieu of) the provisions of section 8132 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1998 (Public Law 105–56) [111 Stat. 1250].

