§ 460rrr–2. Establishment of the Commission(a) EstablishmentThere is established the Rio Grande Natural Area Commission.


(b) PurposeThe Commission shall—(1) advise the Secretary with respect to the Natural Area; and

(2) prepare a management plan relating to non-Federal land in the Natural Area under section 460rrr–4(b)(2)(A) of this title.


(c) MembershipThe Commission shall be composed of 9 members appointed by the Secretary, of whom—(1) 1 member shall represent the Colorado State Director of the Bureau of Land Management;

(2) 1 member shall be the manager of the Alamosa National Wildlife Refuge, ex officio;

(3) 3 members shall be appointed based on the recommendation of the Governor of Colorado, of whom—(A) 1 member shall represent the Colorado Division of Wildlife;

(B) 1 member shall represent the Colorado Division of Water Resources; and

(C) 1 member shall represent the Rio Grande Water Conservation District; and


(4) 4 members shall—(A) represent the general public;

(B) be citizens of the local region in which the Natural Area is established; and

(C) have knowledge and experience in the fields of interest relating to the preservation, restoration, and use of the Natural Area.



(d) Terms of office(1) In generalExcept for the manager of the Alamosa National Wildlife Refuge, the term of office of a member of the Commission shall be 5 years.


(2) ReappointmentA member may be reappointed to the Commission on completion of the term of office of the member.



(e) CompensationA member of the Commission shall serve without compensation for service on the Commission.


(f) ChairpersonThe Commission shall elect a chairperson of the Commission.


(g) Meetings(1) In generalThe Commission shall meet at least quarterly at the call of the chairperson.


(2) Public meetingsA meeting of the Commission shall be open to the public.


(3) NoticeNotice of any meeting of the Commission shall be published in advance of the meeting.



(h) Technical assistanceThe Secretary and the heads of other Federal agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, provide any information and technical services requested by the Commission to assist in carrying out the duties of the Commission.


(Pub. L. 109–337, § 4, Oct. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 1777.)
