§ 4727. Cemetery concessions contracts(a) Contracts Authorized.—The Secretary of the Army may enter into a contract with an appropriate entity for the provision of transportation, interpretative, or other necessary or appropriate concession services to visitors at the Army National Military Cemeteries.

(b) Special Requirements.—(1) The Secretary of the Army shall establish and include in each concession contract such requirements as the Secretary determines are necessary to ensure the protection, dignity, and solemnity of the cemetery at which services are provided under the contract.

(2) A concession contract shall not include operation of the gift shop at Arlington National Cemetery without the specific prior authorization by an Act of Congress.


(c) Franchise Fees.—A concession contract shall provide for payment to the United States of a franchise fee or such other monetary consideration as determined by the Secretary of the Army. The Secretary shall ensure that the objective of generating revenue for the United States is subordinate to the objectives of honoring the service and sacrifices of the deceased members of the armed forces and of providing necessary and appropriate services for visitors to the Cemeteries at reasonable rates.

(d) Special Account.—All franchise fees (and other monetary consideration) collected by the United States under subsection (c) shall be deposited into a special account established in the Treasury of the United States. The funds deposited in such account shall be available for expenditure by the Secretary of the Army, to the extent authorized and in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts, to support activities at the Cemeteries. The funds deposited into the account shall remain available until expended.

(e) Concession Contract Defined.—In this section, the term “concession contract” means a contract authorized and entered into under this section.

(Added Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title V, § 585(a), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 777.)
