§ 410ccc–22. Cane River National Heritage Area Commission(a) EstablishmentTo assist in implementing the purposes of this subchapter 11 See References in Text note below. and to provide guidance for the management of the heritage area, there is established the Cane River National Heritage Area Commission (hereinafter in this part referred to as the “Commission”).


(b) MembershipThe Commission shall consist of 19 members to be appointed no later than 6 months after November 2, 1994. The Commission shall be appointed by the Secretary as follows—(1) one member from recommendations submitted by the Mayor of Natchitoches;

(2) one member from recommendations submitted by the Association for the Preservation of Historic Natchitoches;

(3) one member from recommendations submitted by the Natchitoches Historic Foundation, Inc.;

(4) two members with experience in and knowledge of tourism in the heritage area from recommendations submitted by local business and tourism organizations;

(5) one member from recommendations submitted by the Governor of the State of Louisiana;

(6) one member from recommendations submitted by the Police Jury of Natchitoches Parish;

(7) one member from recommendations submitted by the Concern 22 So in original. Citizens of Cloutierville;

(8) one member from recommendations submitted by the St. Augustine Historical Society;

(9) one member from recommendations submitted by the Black Heritage Committee;

(10) one member from recommendations submitted by the Los Adaes/Robeline Community;

(11) one member from recommendations submitted by the Natchitoches Historic District Commission;

(12) one member from recommendations submitted by the Cane River Waterway Commission;

(13) two members who are landowners in and residents of the heritage area;

(14) one member with experience and knowledge of historic preservation from recommendations submitted by the Museum Contents, Inc.;

(15) one member with experience and knowledge of historic preservation from recommendations submitted by the President of Northwestern State University of Louisiana;

(16) one member with experience in and knowledge of environmental, recreational and conservation matters affecting the heritage area from recommendations submitted by the Natchitoches Sportsmans 33 So in original. Probably should be “Sportsman’s”. Association and other local recreational and environmental organizations; and

(17) the director of the National Park Service, or the Director’s designee, ex officio.


(c) Duties of CommissionThe Commission shall—(1) prepare a management plan for the heritage area in consultation with the National Park Service, the State of Louisiana, the City of Natchitoches, Natchitoches Parish, interested groups, property owners, and the public;

(2) consult with the Secretary on the preparation of the general management plan for the historical park;

(3) develop cooperative agreements with property owners, preservation groups, educational groups, the State of Louisiana, the City of Natchitoches, universities, and tourism groups, and other groups to further the purposes of this subchapter; and

(4) identify appropriate entities, such as a non-profit corporation, that could be established to assume the responsibilities of the Commission following its termination.


(d) Powers of CommissionIn furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter, the Commission is authorized to—(1) procure temporary and intermittent services to the same extent that is authorized by section 3109(b) of title 5, but at rates determined by the Commission to be reasonable;

(2) accept the services of personnel detailed from the State of Louisiana or any political subdivision thereof, and may reimburse the State or political subdivision for such services;

(3) upon the request of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of such agency to the Commission to assist the Commission in carrying out its duties;

(4) appoint and fix the compensation of such staff as may be necessary to carry out its duties. Staff shall be appointed subject to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates;

(5) enter into cooperative agreements with public or private individuals or entities for research, historic preservation, and education purposes;

(6) make grants to assist in the preparation of studies that identify, preserve, and plan for the management of the heritage area;

(7) notwithstanding any other provision of law, seek and accept donations of funds or services from individuals, foundations, or other public or private entities and expend the same for the purposes of providing services and programs in furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter;

(8) assist others in developing educational, informational, and interpretive programs and facilities;

(9) hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Commission may consider appropriate; and

(10) use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other departments or agencies of the United States.


(e) CompensationMembers of the Commission shall receive no compensation for their service on the Commission. While away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission, members shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5.


(f) ChairmanThe Commission shall elect a chairman from among its members. The term of the chairman shall be for 3 years.


(g) TermsThe terms of Commission members shall be for 3 years. Any member of the Commission appointed by the Secretary for a 3-year term may serve after expiration of his or her term until a successor is appointed. Any vacancy shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the term for which the predecessor was appointed.


(h) Annual reportsThe Commission shall submit an annual report to the Secretary identifying its expenses and any income, the entities to which any grants or technical assistance were made during the year for which the report is made, and actions that are planned for the following year.


(Pub. L. 103–449, title IV, § 402, Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4761.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “titles II and III of this Act” and was translated as reading “titles III and IV of this Act” meaning titles III and IV of Pub. L. 103–449, which are classified generally to this subchapter, to reflect the probable intent of Congress in view of similar references in subsecs. (c) and (d) of this section. Title II of Pub. L. 103–449, known as the Weir Farm National Historic Site Expansion Act of 1994, amended provisions listed in a table of National Historic Sites set out under section 461 of this title.


