§ 539m–5. Management of the Area(a) Process(1) In generalThe Secretary shall consult with the Pueblo not less than twice each year, unless otherwise mutually agreed, concerning protection, preservation, and management of the Area (including proposed new uses and modified uses in the Area and authorizations that are anticipated during the next 6 months and were approved in the preceding 6 months).


(2) New uses(A) Request for consent after consultation(i) Denial of consentIf the Pueblo denies consent for a new use within 30 days after completion of the consultation process, the Secretary shall not proceed with the new use.


(ii) Granting of consentIf the Pueblo consents to the new use in writing or fails to respond within 30 days after completion of the consultation process, the Secretary may proceed with the notice and comment process and the environmental analysis.



(B) Final request for consent(i) RequestBefore the Secretary (or a designee) signs a record of decision or decision notice for a proposed new use, the Secretary shall again request the consent of the Pueblo.


(ii) Denial of consentIf the Pueblo denies consent for a new use within 30 days after receipt by the Pueblo of the proposed record of decision or decision notice, the new use shall not be authorized.


(iii) Failure to respondIf the Pueblo fails to respond to the consent request within 30 days after receipt of the proposed record of decision or decision notice—(I) the Pueblo shall be deemed to have consented to the proposed record of decision or decision notice; and

(II) the Secretary may proceed to issue the final record of decision or decision notice.




(3) Public involvement(A) In generalWith respect to a proposed new use or modified use, the public shall be provided notice of—(i) the purpose and need for the proposed new use or modified use;

(ii) the role of the Pueblo in the decisionmaking process; and

(iii) the position of the Pueblo on the proposal.


(B) Court challengeAny person may bring a civil action in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico to challenge a determination by the Secretary concerning whether a use constitutes a new use or a modified use.




(b) Emergencies and emergency closure orders(1) AuthorityThe Secretary shall retain the authority of the Secretary to manage emergency situations, to—(A) provide for public safety; and

(B) issue emergency closure orders in the Area subject to applicable law.


(2) NoticeThe Secretary shall notify the Pueblo regarding emergencies, public safety issues, and emergency closure orders as soon as practicable.


(3) No consentAn action of the Secretary described in paragraph (1) shall not require the consent of the Pueblo.



(c) Disputes involving Forest Service management and Pueblo traditional uses(1) In generalIn a case in which the management of the Area by the Secretary conflicts with a traditional or cultural use, if the conflict does not pertain to a new use subject to the process specified in subsection (a)(2), the process for dispute resolution specified in this subsection shall apply.


(2) Dispute resolution process(A) In generalIn the case of a conflict described in paragraph (1)—(i) the party identifying the conflict shall notify the other party in writing addressed to the Governor of the Pueblo or the Regional Forester, as appropriate, specifying the nature of the dispute; and

(ii) the Governor of the Pueblo or the Regional Forester shall attempt to resolve the dispute for a period of at least 30 days after notice has been provided before bringing a civil action in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico.


(B) Disputes requiring immediate resolutionIn the case of a conflict that requires immediate resolution to avoid imminent, substantial, and irreparable harm—(i) the party identifying the conflict shall notify the other party and seek to resolve the dispute within 3 days of the date of notification; and

(ii) if the parties are unable to resolve the dispute within 3 days—(I) either party may bring a civil action for immediate relief in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico; and

(II) the procedural requirements specified in subparagraph (A) shall not apply.





(Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title IV, § 407, Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 284.)
