§ 430f–10. Park management and administration(a) In generalThe Secretary shall administer the Unit in accordance with sections 430f–6 to 430f–12 of this title and the laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including—(1) sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title; and

(2) sections 461 to 467 of this title.


(b) DutiesIn accordance with section 430f–5 of this title, the Secretary shall—(1) commemorate and interpret, for the benefit of visitors and the general public, the Siege and Battle of Corinth and other Civil War actions in the area in and around the city of Corinth within the larger context of the Civil War and American history, including the significance of the Civil War Siege and Battle of Corinth in 1862 in relation to other operations in the western theater of the Civil War; and

(2) identify and preserve surviving features from the Civil War era in the area in and around the city of Corinth, including both military and civilian themes that include—(A) the role of railroads in the Civil War;

(B) the story of the Corinth contraband camp; and

(C) the development of field fortifications as a tactic of war.



(c) Cooperative agreements(1) In generalTo carry out sections 430f–6 to 430f–12 of this title, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with entities in the public and private sectors, including—(A) colleges and universities;

(B) historical societies;

(C) State and local agencies; and

(D) nonprofit organizations.


(2) Technical assistanceTo develop cooperative land use strategies and conduct activities that facilitate the conservation of the historic, cultural, natural, and scenic resources of the Unit, the Secretary may provide technical assistance, to the extent that a recipient of technical assistance is engaged in the protection, interpretation, or commemoration of historically significant Civil War resources in the area in and around the city of Corinth, to—(A) the State of Mississippi (including a political subdivision of the State);

(B) the State of Tennessee (including a political subdivision of the State);

(C) a governmental entity;

(D) a nonprofit organization; and

(E) a private property owner.



(d) Resources outside the UnitNothing in subsection (c)(2) of this section authorizes the Secretary to own or manage any resource outside the Unit.


(Pub. L. 106–271, § 6, Sept. 22, 2000, 114 Stat. 794.)
