§ 5321. Financial Stability Oversight Council established(a) EstablishmentEffective on July 21, 2010, there is established the Financial Stability Oversight Council.


(b) MembershipThe Council shall consist of the following members:(1) Voting membersThe voting members, who shall each have 1 vote on the Council shall be—(A) the Secretary of the Treasury, who shall serve as Chairperson of the Council;

(B) the Chairman of the Board of Governors;

(C) the Comptroller of the Currency;

(D) the Director of the Bureau;

(E) the Chairman of the Commission;

(F) the Chairperson of the Corporation;

(G) the Chairperson of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;

(H) the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency;

(I) the Chairman of the National Credit Union Administration Board; and

(J) an independent member appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, having insurance expertise.


(2) Nonvoting membersThe nonvoting members, who shall serve in an advisory capacity as a nonvoting member of the Council, shall be—(A) the Director of the Office of Financial Research;

(B) the Director of the Federal Insurance Office;

(C) a State insurance commissioner, to be designated by a selection process determined by the State insurance commissioners;

(D) a State banking supervisor, to be designated by a selection process determined by the State banking supervisors; and

(E) a State securities commissioner (or an officer performing like functions), to be designated by a selection process determined by such State securities commissioners.


(3) Nonvoting member participationThe nonvoting members of the Council shall not be excluded from any of the proceedings, meetings, discussions, or deliberations of the Council, except that the Chairperson may, upon an affirmative vote of the member agencies, exclude the nonvoting members from any of the proceedings, meetings, discussions, or deliberations of the Council when necessary to safeguard and promote the free exchange of confidential supervisory information.



(c) Terms; vacancy(1) TermsThe independent member of the Council shall serve for a term of 6 years, and each nonvoting member described in subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E) of subsection (b)(2) shall serve for a term of 2 years.


(2) VacancyAny vacancy on the Council shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.


(3) Acting officials may serveIn the event of a vacancy in the office of the head of a member agency or department, and pending the appointment of a successor, or during the absence or disability of the head of a member agency or department, the acting head of the member agency or department shall serve as a member of the Council in the place of that agency or department head.



(d) Technical and professional advisory committeesThe Council may appoint such special advisory, technical, or professional committees as may be useful in carrying out the functions of the Council, including an advisory committee consisting of State regulators, and the members of such committees may be members of the Council, or other persons, or both.


(e) Meetings(1) TimingThe Council shall meet at the call of the Chairperson or a majority of the members then serving, but not less frequently than quarterly.


(2) Rules for conducting businessThe Council shall adopt such rules as may be necessary for the conduct of the business of the Council. Such rules shall be rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice for purposes of section 553 of title 5.



(f) VotingUnless otherwise specified, the Council shall make all decisions that it is authorized or required to make by a majority vote of the voting members then serving.


(g) Nonapplicability of FACAThe Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Council, or to any special advisory, technical, or professional committee appointed by the Council, except that, if an advisory, technical, or professional committee has one or more members who are not employees of or affiliated with the United States Government, the Council shall publish a list of the names of the members of such committee.


(h) Assistance from Federal agenciesAny department or agency of the United States may provide to the Council and any special advisory, technical, or professional committee appointed by the Council, such services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services as the Council may determine advisable.


(i) Compensation of members(1) Federal employee membersAll members of the Council who are officers or employees of the United States shall serve without compensation in addition to that received for their services as officers or employees of the United States.


(2) Omitted


(j) Detail of Government employeesAny employee of the Federal Government may be detailed to the Council without reimbursement, and such detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege. An employee of the Federal Government detailed to the Council shall report to and be subject to oversight by the Council during the assignment to the Council, and shall be compensated by the department or agency from which the employee was detailed.


(Pub. L. 111–203, title I, § 111, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1392.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (g), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Codification
Section is comprised of section 111 of Pub. L. 111–203. Subsec. (i)(2) of section 111 of Pub. L. 111–203 amended section 5314 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


