§ 1701z–5. Demonstrations of heating or cooling residential housing utilizing solar energy(a) Consultation by Secretary with National Science Foundation; scope of demonstrations; powers of SecretaryIn carrying out activities under section 1701z–1 of this title, the Secretary may, after consultation with the National Science Foundation, undertake demonstrations to determine the economic and technical feasibility of utilizing solar energy for heating or cooling residential housing (including demonstrations of new housing design or structure involving the use of solar energy). Demonstrations carried out under this section should involve both single family and multifamily housing located in areas having distinguishable climatic characteristics in urban as well as rural environments. To carry out the purpose of this section the Secretary is authorized—(1) to enter into contracts with, to make grants to, and to provide other types of assistance to individuals and entities with special competence and knowledge to contribute to the planning, design, development, and operation of such housing;

(2) to utilize the contract, loan, or mortgage insurance authority of any federally assisted housing program in the actual planning, development, and occupancy of such housing; and

(3) to set aside any development, construction, design, or occupancy requirements for the purpose of any demonstration under this section if he determines that such requirements inhibit such demonstration.


(b) Evaluation by SecretaryThe Secretary shall include in any demonstration under this section an evaluation of the demonstration to cover the full experience involved in all stages of the demonstration.


(Pub. L. 91–609, title V, § 506, as added Pub. L. 93–383, title VIII, § 814, Aug. 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 738; amended Pub. L. 99–386, title I, § 105(b), Aug. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 822.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1970, and not as part of the National Housing Act which comprises this chapter.

Amendments1986—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 99–386 struck out subsec. (c) which related to reports to Congress by Secretary not later than 6 months following close of year in which the Secretary carried out demonstration under this section.


