“SEC. 3412. SALE OF NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVE NUMBERED 1.“(a) Sale of Reserve Required.—Subject to section 3414, not later than two years after the effective date, the Secretary of Energy shall enter into one or more contracts for the sale of all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to all lands owned or controlled by the United States inside Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1. Chapter 641 of title 10, United States Code, shall not apply to the sale of the reserve.

“(b) Equity Finalization.—(1) Not later than eight months after the effective date, the Secretary shall finalize equity interests of the known oil and gas zones in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 in the manner provided by this subsection.

“(2) The Secretary shall retain the services of an independent petroleum engineer, mutually acceptable to the equity owners, who shall prepare a recommendation on final equity figures. The Secretary may accept the recommendation of the independent petroleum engineer for final equity in each known oil and gas zone and establish final equity interest in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 in accordance with the recommendation, or the Secretary may use such other method to establish final equity interest in the reserve as the Secretary considers appropriate.

“(3) If, on the effective date, there is an ongoing equity redetermination dispute between the equity owners under section 9(b) of the unit plan contract, the dispute shall be resolved in the manner provided in the unit plan contract within eight months after the effective date. The resolution shall be considered final for all purposes under this section.


“(c) Notice of Sale.—Not later than two months after the effective date, the Secretary shall publish a notice of intent to sell Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1. The Secretary shall make all technical, geological, and financial information relevant to the sale of the reserve available to all interested and qualified buyers upon request. The Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of General Services, shall ensure that the sale process is fair and open to all interested and qualified parties.

“(d) Establishment of Minimum Sale Price.—(1) Not later than seven months after the effective date, the Secretary shall retain the services of five independent experts in the valuation of oil and gas fields to conduct separate assessments, in a manner consistent with commercial practices, of the value of the interest of the United States in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1. The independent experts shall complete their assessments within 11 months after the effective date. In making their assessments, the independent experts shall consider (among other factors)—“(A) all equipment and facilities to be included in the sale;

“(B) the estimated quantity of petroleum and natural gas in the reserve; and

“(C) the net present value of the anticipated revenue stream that the Secretary and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget jointly determine the Treasury would receive from the reserve if the reserve were not sold, adjusted for any anticipated increases in tax revenues that would result if the reserve were sold.


“(2) The independent experts retained under paragraph (1) shall also determine and submit to the Secretary the estimated total amount of the cost of any environmental restoration and remediation necessary at the reserve. The Secretary shall report the estimate to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Secretary of the Treasury, and Congress.

“(3) The Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall set the minimum acceptable price for the reserve. The Secretary may not set the minimum acceptable price below the higher of—“(A) the average of the five assessments prepared under paragraph (1); and

“(B) the average of three assessments after excluding the high and low assessments.



“(e) Administration of Sale; Draft Contract.—(1) Not later than two months after the effective date, the Secretary shall retain the services of an investment banker or an appropriate equivalent financial adviser to independently administer, in a manner consistent with commercial practices and in a manner that maximizes sale proceeds to the Government, the sale of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 under this section. Costs and fees of retaining the investment banker or financial adviser may be paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the reserve.

“(2) Not later than 11 months after the effective date, the investment banker or financial adviser retained under paragraph (1) shall complete a draft contract or contracts for the sale of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1, which shall accompany the solicitation of offers and describe the terms and provisions of the sale of the interest of the United States in the reserve.

“(3) The draft contract or contracts shall identify—“(A) all equipment and facilities to be included in the sale; and

“(B) any potential claim or liability (including liability for environmental restoration and remediation), and the extent of any such claim or liability, for which the United States is responsible under subsection (g).


“(4) The draft contract or contracts, including the terms and provisions of the sale of the interest of the United States in the reserve, shall be subject to review and approval by the Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Each of those officials shall complete the review of, and approve or disapprove, the draft contract or contracts not later than 12 months after the effective date.


“(f) Solicitation of Offers.—(1) Not later than 13 months after the effective date, the Secretary shall publish the solicitation of offers for Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1.

“(2) Not later than 18 months after the effective date, the Secretary shall identify the highest responsible offer or offers for purchase of the interest of the United States in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 that, in total, meet or exceed the minimum acceptable price determined under subsection (d)(3).

“(3) The Secretary shall take such action immediately after the effective date as is necessary to obtain from an independent petroleum engineer within 10 months after that date a reserve report prepared in a manner consistent with commercial practices. The Secretary shall use the reserve report in support of the preparation of the solicitation of offers for the reserve.


“(g) Future Liabilities.—To effectuate the sale of the interest of the United States in Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1, the Secretary may extend such indemnities and warranties as the Secretary considers reasonable and necessary to protect the purchaser from claims arising from the ownership in the reserve by the United States.

“(h) Maintaining Production.—Until the sale of Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1 is completed under this section, the Secretary shall continue to produce the reserve at the maximum daily oil or gas rate from a reservoir, which will permit maximum economic development of the reservoir consistent with sound oil field engineering practices in accordance with section 3 of the unit plan contract.

“(i) Noncompliance With Deadlines.—At any time during the two-year period beginning on the effective date, if the Secretary determines that the actions necessary to complete the sale of the reserve within that period are not being taken or timely completed, the Secretary shall transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a written notification of that determination together with a plan setting forth the actions that will be taken to ensure that the sale of the reserve will be completed within that period. The Secretary shall consult with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in preparing the plan for submission to the committees.

“(j) Oversight.—The Comptroller General shall monitor the actions of the Secretary relating to the sale of the reserve and report to the appropriate congressional committees any findings on such actions that the Comptroller General considers appropriate to report to the committees.

“(k) Acquisition of Services.—The Secretary may enter into contracts for the acquisition of services required under this section under the authority of paragraph (7) of section 303(c) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 ([former] 41 U.S.C. 253(c)) [see 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(7)], except that the notification required under subparagraph (B) of such paragraph [now 41 U.S.C. 3304(a)(7)(B)] for each contract shall be submitted to Congress not less than 7 days before the award of the contract.

