§ 459b–6. Administration of acquired property(a) Utilization of authority for conservation and management of natural resourcesExcept as otherwise provided in sections 459b to 459b–8 of this title, the property acquired by the Secretary under such sections shall be administered by the Secretary subject to the provisions of sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, as amended and supplemented, and in accordance with laws of general application relating to the national park system as defined by sections 1b to 1d of this title; except that authority otherwise available to the Secretary for the conservation and management of natural resources may be utilized to the extent he finds such authority will further the purposes of sections 459b to 459b–8 of this title.


(b) Preservation of seashore; incompatible visitor conveniences restricted; provisions for public enjoyment and understanding; developments for recreational activities; public use areas(1) In order that the seashore shall be permanently preserved in its present state, no development or plan for the convenience of visitors shall be undertaken therein which would be incompatible with the preservation of the unique flora and fauna or the physiographic conditions now prevailing or with the preservation of such historic sites and structures as the Secretary may designate: Provided, That the Secretary may provide for the public enjoyment and understanding of the unique natural, historic, and scientific features of Cape Cod within the seashore by establishing such trails, observation points, and exhibits and providing such services as he may deem desirable for such public enjoyment and understanding: Provided further, That the Secretary may develop for appropriate public uses such portions of the seashore as he deems especially adaptable for camping, swimming, boating, sailing, hunting, fishing, the appreciation of historic sites and structures and natural features of Cape Cod, and other activities of similar nature.

(2) In developing the seashore the Secretary shall provide public use areas in such places and manner as he determines will not diminish for its owners or occupants the value or enjoyment of any improved property located within the seashore.


(c) Hunting and fishing regulations; navigationThe Secretary may permit hunting and fishing, including shellfishing, on lands and waters under his jurisdiction within the seashore in such areas and under such regulations as he may prescribe during open seasons prescribed by applicable local, State and Federal law. The Secretary shall consult with officials of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and any political subdivision thereof who have jurisdiction of hunting and fishing, including shellfishing, prior to the issuance of any such regulations, and the Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative arrangements with such officials regarding such hunting and fishing, including shellfishing, as he may deem desirable, except that the Secretary shall leave all aspects of the propagation and taking of shellfish to the towns referred to in section 459b of this title.
The Secretary shall not interfere with navigation of waters within the boundaries of the Cape Cod National Seashore by such means and in such areas as is now customary.


(Pub. L. 87–126, § 7, Aug. 7, 1961, 75 Stat. 291.)
