“Sec. 3. [Personnel; financial and administrative services] (a) The Commission shall elect a Chairman from among its members. Financial and administrative services (including those relating to budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, personnel, and procurement) shall be provided for the Commission by the General Services Administration, for which payments shall be made in advance, or by reimbursement, from funds of the Commission in such amounts as may be agreed upon by the Chairman of the Commission and the Administrator, General Services Administration: Provided, That the regulations of the Department of the Interior for the collection of indebtedness of personnel resulting from erroneous payments shall apply to the collection of erroneous payments made to or on behalf of a Commission employee, and regulations of said Secretary for the administrative control of funds shall apply to appropriations of the Commission: And provided further, That the Commission shall not be required to prescribe such regulations.“(b) The Commission shall have power to appoint and fix the compensation of such additional personnel as may be necessary to carry out its duties, without regard to the provisions of the civil service laws and the Classification Act of 1949 [see sections 5101 et seq. and 5331 et seq. of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees].

“(c) The Commission may also procure, without regard to the civil service laws and the Classification Act of 1949 [see sections 5101 et seq. and 5331 et seq. of Title 5], temporary and intermittent services to the same extent as is authorized for the executive departments by section 15 of the Administrative Expenses Act of 1946 [see section 3109 of Title 5], but at rates not to exceed $100 per diem for individuals.

“(d) The members of the Commission specified in paragraph (1) of section 2(a) shall provide the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, with such facilities and services under their jurisdiction and control as may be needed by the Commission to carry out its duties, to the extent that such facilities and services are requested by the Commission and are otherwise available for that purpose. To the extent of available appropriations, the Commission may obtain, by purchase, rental, donation, or otherwise, such additional property, facilities, and services as may be needed to carry out its duties. Upon the termination of the Commission all property, personal and real, and unexpended funds shall be transferred to the Department of the Interior.

