§ 10219. Suicide prevention and resilience program(a) Program Requirement.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish and carry out a program to provide members of the National Guard and Reserves and their families with training in suicide prevention, resilience, and community healing and response to suicide, including provision of such training at Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program events and activities authorized under section 582 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (10 U.S.C. 10101 note).

(b) Suicide Prevention Training.—Under the program, the Secretary shall provide members of the National Guard and Reserves with training in suicide prevention. Such training may include—(1) describing the warning signs for suicide and teaching effective strategies for prevention and intervention;

(2) examining the influence of military culture on risk and protective factors for suicide; and

(3) engaging in interactive case scenarios and role plays to practice effective intervention strategies.


(c) Community Response Training.—Under the program, the Secretary shall provide the families and communities of members of the National Guard and Reserves with training in responses to suicide that promote individual and community healing. Such training may include—(1) enhancing collaboration among community members and local service providers to create an integrated, coordinated community response to suicide;

(2) communicating best practices for preventing suicide, including safe messaging, appropriate memorial services, and media guidelines;

(3) addressing the impact of suicide on the military and the larger community, and the increased risk that can result; and

(4) managing resources to assist key community and military service providers in helping the families, friends, and fellow servicemembers of a suicide victim through the processes of grieving and healing.


(d) Community Training Assistance.—The program shall include the provision of assistance with such training to the local communities of those servicemembers and families, to be provided in coordination with local community programs.

(e) Collaboration.—In carrying out the program, the Secretary shall collect and analyze “lessons learned” and suggestions from State National Guard and Reserve organizations with existing or developing suicide prevention and community response programs.

(f) Outreach for Certain Members of the Reserve Components.—(1) Upon the request of an adjutant general of a State, the Secretary may share with the adjutant general the contact information of members described in paragraph (2) who reside in such State in order for the adjutant general to include such members in suicide prevention efforts conducted under this section.

(2) Members described in this paragraph are—(A) members of the Individual Ready Reserve; and

(B) members of a reserve component who are individual mobilization augmentees.



(g) Termination.—The program under this section shall terminate on October 1, 2017.

(Added Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 581(a)(1), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1764; amended Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title V, § 511(a), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 751.)


References in TextSection 582 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, referred to in subsec. (a), is section 582 of Pub. L. 110–181, which is set out as a note under section 10101 of this title.

Amendments2013—Subsecs. (f), (g). Pub. L. 113–66 added subsec. (f) and redesignated former subsec. (f) as (g).


