“SEC. 104. RED ROCK CANYON LAND EXCHANGE.“(a) Acquisition Requirement.—If the Corporation offers to convey to the United States all right, title, and interest in and to the approximately 1,082 acres of non-Federal land owned by the Corporation and depicted on the Red Rock Canyon Map as ‘Offered Lands proposed addition to the Red Rock Canyon NCA’, the Secretary shall accept such offer on behalf of the United States, and not later than 90 days after the date of the offer, except as otherwise provided in this title, shall make the following conveyances:“(1) To the Corporation, the approximately 998 acres of Federal lands depicted on the Red Rock Canyon Map as ‘Public land selected for exchange’.

“(2) To Clark County, Nevada, the approximately 1,221 acres of Federal lands depicted on the Red Rock Canyon Map as ‘Proposed BLM transfer for county park’.


“(b) Simultaneous Conveyances.—Title to the private property and the Federal property to be conveyed pursuant to this section shall be conveyed at the same time.

“(c) Map.—The Secretary shall keep the Red Rock Canyon Map on file and available for public inspection in the Las Vegas District Office of the Bureau of Land Management in Nevada, and the State Office of the Bureau of Land Management, Reno, Nevada.

“(d) Conditions.—“(1) Hazardous materials.—As a condition of the conveyance under ––subsection [sic] (a)(1), the Secretary shall require that the Corporation be responsible for removal of and remediation related to any hazardous materials that are present on the property conveyed to the United States under subsection (a).

“(2) Survey.—As a condition of the conveyance under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall require that not later than 90 days after the date of the offer referred to in subsection (a), the Corporation shall provide a metes and bounds survey, that is acceptable to the Corporation, Clark County, and the Secretary, of the common boundary between the parcels of land to be conveyed under subsection (a).

“(3) Lands conveyed to clark county.—As a condition of the conveyance under subsection (a)(2), the Secretary shall require that—“(A) the lands transferred to Clark County by the United States must be held in perpetuity by the County for use only as a public park or as part of a public regional trail system; and

“(B) if the County attempts to transfer the lands or to undertake a use on the lands that is inconsistent with their preservation and use as described in subparagraph (A), such lands shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United States.



“(e) Valuation.—“(1) Equal value exchange.—The values of the Federal parcel and the non-Federal parcel, as determined under paragraph (2)—“(A) shall be equal; or

“(B) if the values are not equal, shall be equalized in accordance with paragraph (3).


“(2) Appraisal.—The values of the Federal parcel and the non-Federal parcel shall be determined by an appraisal, to be approved by the Secretary, that complies with the Uniform Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions.

“(3) Equalization.—“(A) In general.—If the value of the non-Federal parcel is less than the value of the Federal parcel—“(i) the Corporation shall make a cash equalization payment to the Secretary; or

“(ii) the Secretary shall, as determined to be appropriate by the Secretary and the Corporation, reduce the acreage of the Federal parcel.


“(B) Disposition of proceeds.—The Secretary shall deposit any cash equalization payments received under subparagraph (A)(i) in accordance with section 4(e)(1)(C) of the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 2345).



