§ 332. Use of militia and armed forces to enforce Federal authority
Whenever the President considers that unlawful obstructions, combinations, or assemblages, or rebellion against the authority of the United States, make it impracticable to enforce the laws of the United States in any State by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, he may call into Federal service such of the militia of any State, and use such of the armed forces, as he considers necessary to enforce those laws or to suppress the rebellion.
(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 15; Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1057(a)(2), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3440.)











Historical and Revision Notes


Revised sectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


33250:202.R.S. 5298.


50:202 (last 22 words) is omitted as surplusage. The words “armed forces” are substituted for the words “land and naval forces of the United States”. The words “call into Federal service such of the militia” are substituted for the words “call forth the militia of any or all the States” for clarity and uniformity. The word “may” is substituted for the words “it shall be lawful”. The words “faithful execution of the” and “in whatever State or Territory thereof the laws of the United States may be forcibly opposed” are omitted as surplusage.

DerivationAct July 29, 1861, ch. 25, § 1, 12 Stat. 281.

Amendments2006—Pub. L. 109–163 struck out “or Territory” after “in any State”.


Ex. Ord. No. 10730. Assistance for Removal of an Obstruction of Justice Within the State of Arkansas
Ex. Ord. No. 10730, Sept. 24, 1957, 22 F.R. 7628, authorized the Secretary of Defense to order into the active military service of the United States units of the National Guard of the United States and of the Air National Guard of the United States within the State of Arkansas for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders in order to enforce any orders of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas for the removal of obstructions to justice in respect to enrollment and attendance at public schools in the Little Rock School District, Little Rock, Arkansas; authorized the Secretary of Defense to also use the armed forces of the United States to enforce such orders of the district court; and authorized the Secretary of Defense to delegate his authority to the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Air Force.


Ex. Ord. No. 11053. Assistance for Removal of Unlawful Obstructions of Justice in the State of Mississippi
Ex. Ord. No. 11053, Sept. 30, 1962, 27 F.R. 9681, authorized the Secretary of Defense to call into the active military service of the United States units of the Army National Guard and of the Air National Guard of the State of Mississippi for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders in order to enforce all orders of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi and of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for the removal of obstructions to justice in the State of Mississippi; authorized the Secretary of Defense to also use the armed forces of the United States to enforce such court orders; and authorized the Secretary of Defense to delegate his authority to the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Air Force.


Ex. Ord. No. 11111. Assistance for Removal of Obstructions of Justice and Suppression of Unlawful Combinations Within the State of Alabama
Ex. Ord. No. 11111, June 11, 1963, 28 F.R. 5709, authorized the Secretary of Defense to call into the active military service of the United States units of the Army National Guard and of the Air National Guard of the State of Alabama for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders in order to enforce the laws of the United States within that State and the orders of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama, to remove obstructions to justice, and to suppress unlawful assemblies, conspiracies, and domestic violence which oppose the laws of the United States or impede the course of justice under those laws within that State; authorized the Secretary of Defense to also use the armed forces of the United States for such purposes; and authorized the Secretary of Defense to delegate his authority to the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Air Force.


Ex. Ord. No. 11118. Assistance for Removal of Unlawful Obstructions of Justice in the State of Alabama
Ex. Ord. No. 11118, Sept. 10, 1963, 28 F.R. 9863, authorized the Secretary of Defense to call into the active military service of the United States units of the Army National Guard and of the Air National Guard of the State of Alabama for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders in order to enforce the laws of the United States and any orders of United States Courts relating to the enrollment and attendance of students in public schools in the State of Alabama and to suppress unlawful assemblies, conspiracies, and domestic violence which oppose the law or impede the course of justice under the law within that State; authorized the Secretary of Defense to also use the armed forces of the United States for such purposes; and authorized the Secretary of Defense to delegate his authority to the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Air Force.


