§ 460ii–3. Federal supervision of water resources projects(a) Limitations on licensing and assistance authorities; criteria for upgrading, improving, etc., supply and quality enhancement programsThe Federal Energy Regulatory Commission shall not license the construction of any dam, water conduit, reservoir, powerhouse, transmission line, or other project works under the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.), on or directly affecting the recreation area, and no department or agency of the United States shall assist by loan, grant, license, or otherwise in the construction of any water resources project that would have a direct and adverse effect on the values for which such area is established, except where such project is determined by the State of Georgia to be necessary for water supply or water quality enhancement purposes and authorized by the United States Congress. Nothing contained in the foregoing sentence, however, shall preclude licensing of, or assistance to, developments upstream or downstream from the recreation area or on any stream trib­utary thereto which will not invade the recreation area or unreasonably diminish the scenic, recreational, and fish and wildlife values present therein on August 15, 1978. Nothing contained in this subsection shall preclude the upgrading, improvement, expansion or development of facilities or public works for water supply or water quality enhancement purposes if such action would not have a material adverse effect on the values for which the recreation area is established.


(b) Limitations on recommending authorizations and requesting appropriations; applicability of local considerations and criteriaNo department or agency of the United States shall recommend authorization of any water resources project that would have a direct and adverse effect on the values for which such area is established, as determined by the Secretary, nor shall such department or agency request appropriations to begin construction of any such project, whether heretofore or hereafter authorized, without at least sixty days in advance, (1) advising the Secretary in writing of its intention to do so and (2) reporting to the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of Representatives and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate the nature of the project involved and the manner in which such project would conflict with the purposes of this subchapter or would affect the recreation area and the values to be protected by it under this subchapter. It is not the intention of Congress by this subchapter to require the manipulation or reduction of lake water levels in Lake Sidney Lanier. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed in any way to restrict, prohibit, or affect any recommendation of the Metropolitan Atlanta Water Resources Study as authorized by the Public Works Committee of the United States Senate on March 2, 1972.


(c) Expeditious acquisition of lands and interests in lands necessary for establishment, etc., of areaThe Secretary is directed to proceed as expeditiously as possible to acquire the lands and interests in lands necessary to achieve the purposes of this subchapter and chapter 43 of this title.


(d) Mitigation funds for adverse impacts; excepted lands; limitation of amount; replacement lands(1) Notwithstanding any other authority of law, any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of the State of Georgia, or any other entity which may construct any project recommended in the study entitled “Metropolitan Atlanta Water Resources Management Study, Georgia: Report of Chief of Engineers,” dated June 1, 1982, which directly adversely impacts any lands within the authorized recreation boundaries of the Bowman’s Island tract as shown on the map numbered and dated CHAT–20,003, September 1984, which were in Federal ownership as of September 1, 1984, shall, upon request by the Secretary, mitigate such adverse impacts. It is expressly provided that use of or adverse impact upon any other lands within the recreation area as result of any such project shall not require mitigation. Mitigation required by this paragraph shall be provided by payment to the United States of a sum not to exceed $3,200,000. The mitigation funds paid pursuant to this paragraph shall be utilized by the Secretary for the acquisition of replacement lands. Such replacement lands shall be acquired only after consultation with the Governor of Georgia.

(2) In acquiring replacement lands under paragraph (1) priority shall be given to acquisition of lands within the recreation area boundary and those lands within or adjacent to the 2,000 foot wide corridor referred to in section 460ii of this title. Any lands acquired pursuant to this subsection lying outside the boundaries of the recreation area shall, upon acquisition, be included within the recreation area and transferred to the Secretary for management under this subchapter. The Secretary shall publish a revised boundary map to include any lands added to the recreation area pursuant to this subsection.

(3) If lands as described in paragraph (2) are not available for acquisition, other lands within the State of Georgia may be acquired as replacement lands under paragraph (1) if such lands are transferred to the State of Georgia for permanent management for public outdoor recreation.


(Pub. L. 95–344, title I, § 104, Aug. 15, 1978, 92 Stat. 476; Pub. L. 98–568, § 1(d), Oct. 30, 1984, 98 Stat. 2928; Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(18), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4584; Pub. L. 106–154, § 2(e)(2), (3), Dec. 9, 1999, 113 Stat. 1739.)


References in TextThe Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.), referred to in subsec. (a), is act June 10, 1920, ch. 285, 41 Stat. 1063, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 12 (§ 791a et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 791a of this title and Tables.

Amendments1999—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 106–154, § 2(e)(2), substituted “this subchapter” for “this subchapter and chapter 43 of this title” wherever appearing.
Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 106–154, § 2(e)(3), substituted “under this subchapter” for “under this subchapter and chapter 43 of this title”.
1994—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 103–437 substituted “Natural Resources” for “Interior and Insular Affairs” after “Committee on”.
1984—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 98–568 added subsec. (d).


