§ 92. Control; regulations; grants for buildings; rights-of-way; fish and game; removal of trespassers
Mount Rainier National Park shall be under the exclusive control of the Secretary of the Interior. In addition to the powers and duties enumerated in section 3 of this title, not inconsistent with this section, he shall make regulations providing for the preservation from injury or spoliation of all timber, mineral deposits, natural curiosities, or wonders within said park, and their retention in their natural condition. The Secretary may, in his discretion, grant parcels of ground at such places in said park as shall require the erection of buildings for the accommodation of visitors. And through the lands of the Pacific National Forest adjoining said park rights-of-way are hereby granted, under such restrictions and regulations as the Secretary of the Interior may establish, to any railway or tramway company or companies, through the lands of said Pacific National Forest, and also into said park created by section 91 of this title, for the purpose of building, constructing, and operating a railway, constructing and operating a railway or tramway line or lines, through said lands, also into said park. He shall provide against the wanton destruction of the fish and game found within said park, and against their capture or destruction for the purposes of merchandise or profit. He shall also cause all persons trespassing upon the same to be removed therefrom, and generally shall be authorized to take all such measures as shall be necessary to fully carry out the objects and purposes of sections 91, 92 and 93 of this title.
(Mar. 2, 1899, ch. 377, § 2, 30 Stat. 994; June 12, 1917, ch. 27, § 1, 40 Stat. 153.)

Codification
The words “In addition to the powers and duties enumerated in section 3 of this title, not inconsistent with this section” were added to relate this section to later law, defining the duties of the Secretary of the Interior as to national parks.
An additional provision in the first sentence making it the duty of the Secretary of the Interior as soon as practicable to make such rules and regulations as he might deem necessary or proper for the care and management of the park has been omitted as executed.
A provision of the original section for the disposition of the proceeds of leases for buildings for accommodation of visitors and other revenues from the park has been omitted as superseded by section 452 of this title.
“Pacific National Forest” was substituted for “Pacific Forest Reserve” on authority of act Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2907, 34 Stat. 1269, which provided that forest reserves shall hereafter be known as national forests.

RepealsRepeal of provisions of this section relating to granting rights-of-way to railway or tramway companies for purpose of building and operating a railway or tramway, so far as they relate to lands within Mount Rainier National Park, see section 92a of this title.


