“SEC. 313. PROVISION OF RELIEF.“(a) In General.—Not later than the date that is 30 days after the date on which the President receives the report of the Commission in which the Commission’s determination under section 312(a) is affirmative, or which contains a determination under section 312(a) that the President considers to be affirmative under paragraph (1) of section 330(d) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1330(d)(1)), the President, subject to subsection (b), shall provide relief from imports of the article that is the subject of such determination to the extent that the President determines necessary to remedy or prevent the injury found by the Commission and to facilitate the efforts of the domestic industry to make a positive adjustment to import competition.

“(b) Exception.—The President is not required to provide import relief under this section if the President determines that the provision of the import relief will not provide greater economic and social benefits than costs.

“(c) Nature of Relief.—“(1) In general.—The import relief (including provisional relief) that the President is authorized to provide under this section with respect to imports of an article is as follows:“(A) The suspension of any further reduction provided for under Annex 2B of the Agreement in the duty imposed on such article.

“(B) An increase in the rate of duty imposed on such article to a level that does not exceed the lesser of—“(i) the column 1 general rate of duty imposed under the HTS on like articles at the time the import relief is provided; or

“(ii) the column 1 general rate of duty imposed under the HTS on like articles on the day before the date on which the Agreement enters into force [Jan. 1, 2004].


“(C) In the case of a duty applied on a seasonal basis to such article, an increase in the rate of duty imposed on the article to a level that does not exceed the lesser of—“(i) the column 1 general rate of duty imposed under the HTS on like articles for the immediately preceding corresponding season; or

“(ii) the column 1 general rate of duty imposed under the HTS on like articles on the day before the date on which the Agreement enters into force.



“(2) Progressive liberalization.—If the period for which import relief is provided under this section is greater than 1 year, the President shall provide for the progressive liberalization (described in article 7.28 of the Agreement) of such relief at regular intervals during the period of its application.


“(d) Period of Relief.—“(1) In general.—Subject to paragraph (2), the import relief that the President is authorized to provide under this section may not exceed 2 years.

“(2) Extension.—“(A) In general.—Subject to subparagraph (C), the President, after receiving an affirmative determination from the Commission under subparagraph (B), may extend the effective period of any import relief provided under this section if the President determines that—“(i) the import relief continues to be necessary to prevent or remedy serious injury and to facilitate adjustment; and

“(ii) there is evidence that the industry is making a positive adjustment to import competition.


“(B) Action by commission.—“(i) Upon a petition on behalf of the industry concerned, filed with the Commission not earlier than the date which is 9 months, and not later than the date which is 6 months, before the date on which any action taken under subsection (a) is to terminate, the Commission shall conduct an investigation to determine whether action under this section continues to be necessary to remedy or prevent serious injury and whether there is evidence that the industry is making a positive adjustment to import competition.

“(ii) The Commission shall publish notice of the commencement of any proceeding under this subparagraph in the Federal Register and shall, within a reasonable time thereafter, hold a public hearing at which the Commission shall afford interested parties and consumers an opportunity to be present, to present evidence, and to respond to the presentations of other parties and consumers, and otherwise to be heard.

“(iii) The Commission shall transmit to the President a report on its investigation and determination under this subparagraph not later than 60 days before the action under subsection (a) is to terminate, unless the President specifies a different date.


“(C) Period of import relief.—The effective period of any import relief imposed under this section, including any extensions thereof, may not, in the aggregate, exceed 4 years.



“(e) Rate After Termination of Import Relief.—When import relief under this section is terminated with respect to an article, the rate of duty on that article shall be the rate that would have been in effect, but for the provision of such relief, on the date the relief terminates.

“(f) Articles Exempt From Relief.—No import relief may be provided under this section on any article that has been subject to import relief, after the entry into force of the Agreement [Jan. 1, 2004], under—“(1) this subtitle;

“(2) subtitle B;

“(3) chapter 1 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.];

“(4) article 6 of the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing referred to in section 101(d)(4) of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3511(d)(4)); or

“(5) article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture referred to in section 101(d)(2) of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3511(d)(2)).


