§ 450hh–1. Designation; acquisition of additional lands; lands excluded
Upon a determination by the Secretary of the Interior that sufficient land and interests in land situated on the island have been acquired by the United States for the establishment of a suitable national monument, such acquired property, and any Federal properties on the island that are not required for other public purposes, shall be established as the “Saint Croix Island International Historic Site”. An order of the Secretary of the Interior, constituting notice of such determination, shall be published in the Federal Register. Following establishment of the national monument, other properties situated upon the island may become a part of the monument upon acquisition of title to such properties by the United States, and Federal properties situated upon the island, upon a determination by the agency administering such Federal properties that they are no longer required by that agency, may be transferred to the Secretary of the Interior by such agency to become a part of the national monument. Notice of the addition of any such properties to the monument shall be published in the Federal Register by the Secretary of the Interior. There shall be excluded from the national monument, for such time as the United States Coast Guard shall consider it to be necessary, any portion of the island which is being used and which is required for the purposes of a Coast Guard light station.
(June 8, 1949, ch. 180, § 2, 63 Stat. 158; Pub. L. 98–422, Sept. 25, 1984, 98 Stat. 1615.)


Change of Name
Pub. L. 98–422 provided:

“That (a) in recognition of its historic significance to the United States and Canada, the Saint Croix Island National Monument in the State of Maine is hereby redesignated as the ‘Saint Croix Island International Historic Site’.

“(b) Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, record, or other paper of the United States to such monument shall be deemed to be a reference to the ‘Saint Croix Island International Historic Site’.

“(c) Nothing in this joint resolution shall affect the status of the ‘Saint Croix Island International Historic Site’ as a national monument and a unit of the National Park System.”





Transfer of Functions
For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


