“SEC. 2. FLIGHTS OVER YOSEMITE AND HALEAKALA̅ DURING STUDY AND REVIEW.“(a) Yosemite National Park.—During the study and review periods provided in subsection (c), it shall be unlawful for any fixed wing aircraft or helicopter flying under visual flight rules to fly at an altitude of less than 2,000 feet over the surface of Yosemite National Park. For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘surface’ refers to the highest terrain within the park which is within 2,000 feet laterally of the route of flight and with respect to Yosemite Valley such term refers to the upper-most rim of the valley.

“(b) Haleakala̅ National Park.—During the study and review periods provided in subsection (c), it shall be unlawful for any fixed wing aircraft or helicopter flying under visual flight rules to fly at an altitude below 9,500 feet above mean sea level over the surface of any of the following areas in Haleakala̅ National Park: Haleakala Crater, Crater Cabins, the Scientific Research Reserve, Halemauu Trail, Kaupo Gap Trail, or any designated tourist viewpoint.

“(c) Study and Review Periods.—For purposes of subsections (a) and (b), the study period shall be the period of the time after the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 18, 1987] and prior to the submission of the report under section 1. The review period shall comprise a 2-year period for Congressional review after the submission of the report to Congress.

“(d) Exceptions.—The prohibitions contained in subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply to any of the following:“(1) emergency situations involving the protection of persons or property, including aircraft;

“(2) search and rescue operations;

“(3) flights for purposes of firefighting or for required administrative purposes; and

“(4) compliance with instructions of an air traffic controller.


“(e) Enforcement.—For purposes of enforcement, the prohibitions contained in subsections (a) and (b) shall be treated as requirements established pursuant to section 307 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 [see 49 U.S.C. 40103(b)]. To provide information to pilots regarding the restrictions established under this Act, the Administrator shall provide public notice of such restrictions in appropriate Federal Aviation Administration publications as soon as practicable after the enactment of this Act [Aug. 18, 1987].

