“SEC. 203. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM FOR ELDERLY HOUSING FOR INTERGENERATIONAL FAMILIES.“(a) Demonstration Program.—The Secretary shall carry out a demonstration program (referred to in this section as the ‘demonstration program’) to provide assistance for intergenerational dwelling units for intergenerational families in connection with the supportive housing program under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q).

“(b) Intergenerational Dwelling Units.—The Secretary shall provide assistance under this section only to private nonprofit organizations selected under subsection (d) for use only for expanding the supply of intergenerational dwelling units, which units shall be provided—“(1) by designating and retrofitting, for use as intergenerational dwelling units, existing dwelling units that are located within a project assisted under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q);

“(2) through development of buildings or projects comprised solely of intergenerational dwelling units; or

“(3) through the development of an annex or addition to an existing project assisted under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q), that contains intergenerational dwelling units, including through the development of elder cottage housing opportunity units that are small, freestanding, barrier free, energy efficient, removable dwelling units located adjacent to a larger project or dwelling.


“(c) Program Terms.—Assistance provided pursuant to this section shall be subject to the provisions of section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q), except that—“(1) notwithstanding subsection (d)(1) of that section 202 or any provision of that section restricting occupancy to elderly persons, any intergenerational dwelling unit assisted under the demonstration program may be occupied by an intergenerational family;

“(2) subsections (e) and (f) of that section 202 shall not apply;

“(3) in addition to the requirements under subsection (g) of that section 202, the Secretary shall—“(A) ensure that occupants of intergenerational dwelling units assisted under the demonstration program are provided a range of services that are tailored to meet the needs of elderly persons, children, and intergenerational families; and

“(B) coordinate with the heads of other Federal agencies as may be appropriate to ensure the provision of such services; and


“(4) the Secretary may waive or alter any other provision of that section 202 necessary to provide for assistance under the demonstration program.


“(d) Selection.—The Secretary shall—“(1) establish application procedures for private nonprofit organizations to apply for assistance under this section; and

“(2) to the extent that amounts are made available pursuant to subsection (f), select not less than 2 and not more than 4 projects that are assisted under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q) for assistance under this section, based on the ability of the applicant to develop and operate intergenerational dwelling units and national geographical diversity among those projects funded.


“(e) Report.—Not later than 36 months after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 16, 2003], the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress that—“(1) describes the demonstration program; and

“(2) analyzes the effectiveness of the demonstration program.


“(f) Authorization of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 to carry out this section.

“(g) Sunset.—The demonstration program carried out under this section shall terminate 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

