§ 433a. Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial; establishment
The President of the United States is authorized to establish by proclamation the following-described Government lands, together with the Perry’s Victory Memorial proper, its approaches, retaining walls, and all buildings, structures, and other property thereon, situated in Put-in-Bay Township, South Bass Island, Ottawa County, Lake Erie, State of Ohio, as the “Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial”, for the preservation of the historical associations connected therewith, to inculcate the lessons of international peace by arbitration and disarmament, and for the benefit and enjoyment of the people: Commencing at the intersection of the middle line of Delaware Avenue and Chapman Avenue, in the village of Put-in-Bay, and running thence south eighty-eight degrees fifty-nine minutes east in the middle line of said Delaware Avenue, and the same extended four hundred and ninety-five feet to Lake Erie; thence north forty-nine degrees fifty-nine minutes east along said lake shore three hundred and forty-six feet; thence north forty-three degrees fourteen minutes east along said lake shore two hundred and twelve feet; thence north fifty-three degrees thirteen minutes east four hundred feet along said lake shore; thence north forty-six degrees six minutes west about seven hundred and thirty feet to Lake Erie; thence southwesterly and westerly along said lake shore to the middle line, extended, of said Chapman Avenue; thence south one degree thirty minutes west along said middle line, and the same extended, about five hundred and twenty feet to the place of beginning, and containing fourteen and twenty-five one-hundredths acres of land and known as a part of lots numbered 1 and 2, range south of county road, and a part of lot numbered 12, East Point, in South Bass Island, in the township of Put-in-Bay, county of Ottawa, State of Ohio.
(June 2, 1936, ch. 477, § 1, 49 Stat. 1393; Pub. L. 92–568, § 1, Oct. 26, 1972, 86 Stat. 1181.)


Change of Name
“Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial” substituted in text for “Perry’s Victory and International Peace Memorial National Monument” to conform to the redesignation provided in section 1 of Pub. L. 92–568, classified to section 433f–1 of this title.

Establishment of Memorial; BoundariesMemorial and boundaries established by Presidential Proc. No. 2182, July 6, 1936, 50 Stat. 1734.


