“SEC. 333. LAND CONVEYANCE, PORTION OF NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVE NUMBERED 2, TO CITY OF TAFT, CALIFORNIA.“(a) Conveyance.—Effective on the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 8, 2005], there is conveyed to the City of Taft, California (in this section referred to as the ‘City’), all surface right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real property consisting of approximately 220 acres located in the NE¼, the NE¼ of the NW¼, and the N½ of the SE¼ of the NW¼ of section 18, township 32 south, range 24 east, Mount Diablo meridian, Kern County, California.

“(b) Consideration.—The conveyance under subsection (a) is made without the payment of consideration by the City.

“(c) Treatment of Existing Rights.—The conveyance under subsection (a) is subject to valid existing rights, including Federal oil and gas lease SAC–019577.

“(d) Treatment of Minerals.—All coal, oil, gas, and other minerals within the lands conveyed under subsection (a) are reserved to the United States, except that the United States and its lessees, licensees, permittees, or assignees shall have no right of surface use or occupancy of the lands. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require the United States or its lessees, licensees, permittees, or assignees to support the surface of the conveyed lands.

“(e) Indemnify and Hold Harmless.—The City shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the United States for, from, and against, and the City shall assume all responsibility for, any and all liability of any kind or nature, including all loss, cost, expense, or damage, arising from the City’s use or occupancy of, or operations on, the land conveyed under subsection (a), whether such use or occupancy of, or operations on, occurred before or occur after the date of the enactment of this Act.

“(f) Instrument of Conveyance.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall execute, file, and cause to be recorded in the appropriate office a deed or other appropriate instrument documenting the conveyance made by this section.

