§ 635a–5. Negotiations to end export credit financing(a) In generalThe Secretary of the Treasury (in this section referred to as the “Secretary”) shall initiate and pursue negotiations—(1) with other major exporting countries, including members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and non-OECD members, to substantially reduce, with the ultimate goal of eliminating, subsidized export financing programs and other forms of export subsidies; and

(2) with all countries that finance air carrier aircraft with funds from a state-sponsored entity, to substantially reduce, with the ultimate goal of eliminating, aircraft export credit financing for all aircraft covered by the 2007 Sector Understanding on Export Credits for Civil Aircraft (in this section referred to as the “ASU”), including any modification thereof, and all of the following types of aircraft:(A) Heavy aircraft that are capable of a takeoff weight of 300,000 pounds or more, whether or not operating at such a weight during a particular phase of flight.

(B) Large aircraft that are capable of a takeoff weight of more than 41,000 pounds, and have a maximum certificated takeoff weight of not more than 300,000 pounds.

(C) Small aircraft that have a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 41,000 pounds or less.



(b) Annual reports on progress of negotiationsNot later than 180 days after May 30, 2012, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives—(1) a report on the progress of any negotiations described in subsection (a)(1), until the Secretary certifies in writing to the committees that all countries that support subsidized export financing programs have agreed to end the support; and

(2) a report on the progress of any negotiations described in subsection (a)(2), including the progress of any negotiations with respect to each classification of aircraft set forth in subsection (a)(2), until the Secretary certifies in writing to the committees that all countries that support subsidized export financing programs have agreed to end the support of aircraft covered by the ASU.


(Pub. L. 112–122, § 11, May 30, 2012, 126 Stat. 356.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 2012, and not as part of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 which comprises this subchapter.


