§ 541g. Advisory council for scenic-research area; membership; designation of chairman; compensation; consultation by Secretary(a) Advisory council; establishment; consultation; members; term; appointmentThe Secretary, pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act, shall establish an advisory council for the Area, and shall consult on a periodic and regular basis with such council with respect to matters relating to management of the Area. The members of the advisory council, who shall not exceed eleven in number, shall serve for the individual staggered terms of three years each and shall be appointed by the Secretary as follows—(1) a member to represent each county in which a portion of the Area is located, each such appointee to be designated by the respective governing body of the county involved;

(2) a member appointed to represent the State of Oregon, who shall be designated by the Governor of Oregon; and

(3) not to exceed eight members appointed by the Secretary from among persons who, individually or through association with national or local organizations, have an interest in the administration of the Area.


(b) Chairman; vacanciesThe Secretary shall designate one member to be chairman and shall fill vacancies in the same manner as the original appointment.


(c) Compensation; reimbursement for expensesThe members shall not receive any compensation for their services as members of the advisory council, but they shall be reimbursed for travel expenses and shall be allowed, as appropriate, per diem or actual subsistence expenses.


(d) Consultation by Secretary with private groups, etc.; cooperation with other Federal, State, etc., agencies and organizationsIn addition to his consultation with the advisory council, the Secretary shall seek the views of other private groups, individuals, and the public, and shall seek the views and assistance of, and cooperate with all other Federal, State, and local agencies with responsibilities for zoning, planning, migratory fish, waterfowl, and marine animals, water, and natural resources, and all nonprofit agencies and organizations which may contribute information or expertise about the resources, and the management, of the Area, in order that the knowledge, expertise and views of all agencies and groups may contribute affirmatively to the most sensitive present and future use of the Area and its various subareas for the benefit of the public.


(Pub. L. 93–535, § 8, Dec. 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 1733.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Termination of Advisory CouncilsAdvisory councils established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a council established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such council is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a council established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 3(2) and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


