“SEC. 311. COMMENCING OF ACTION FOR RELIEF.“(a) Filing of Petition.—“(1) In general.—A petition requesting action under this subtitle for the purpose of adjusting to the obligations of the United States under the Agreement may be filed with the Commission by an entity, including a trade association, firm, certified or recognized union, or group of workers, that is representative of an industry. The Commission shall transmit a copy of any petition filed under this subsection to the United States Trade Representative.

“(2) Provisional relief.—An entity filing a petition under this subsection may request that provisional relief be provided as if the petition had been filed under section 202(a) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2252(a)).

“(3) Critical circumstances.—Any allegation that critical circumstances exist shall be included in the petition.


“(b) Investigation and Determination.—Upon the filing of a petition under subsection (a), the Commission, unless subsection (d) applies, shall promptly initiate an investigation to determine whether, as a result of the reduction or elimination of a duty provided for under the Agreement, a Singaporean article is being imported into the United States in such increased quantities, in absolute terms or relative to domestic production, and under such conditions that imports of the Singaporean article constitute a substantial cause of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry producing an article that is like, or directly competitive with, the imported article.

“(c) Applicable Provisions.—The following provisions of section 202 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2252) apply with respect to any investigation initiated under subsection (b):“(1) Paragraphs (1)(B) and (3) of subsection (b).

“(2) Subsection (c).

“(3) Subsection (d).

“(4) Subsection (i).


“(d) Articles Exempt From Investigation.—No investigation may be initiated under this section with respect to any Singaporean article if, after the date that the Agreement enters into force [Jan. 1, 2004], import relief has been provided with respect to that Singaporean article under—“(1) this subtitle;

“(2) subtitle B;

“(3) chapter 1 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.];

“(4) article 6 of the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing referred to in section 101(d)(4) of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3511(d)(4)); or

“(5) article 5 of the Agreement on Agriculture referred to in section 101(d)(2) of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 3511(d)(2)).


