“SEC. 224. INCENTIVES TO EXTEND LOW INCOME USE.“(a) Agreements by Secretary.—After receiving a plan of action from an owner of eligible low income housing, the Secretary may enter into such agreements as are necessary to satisfy the criteria for approval under section 225.

“(b) Permissible Incentives.—Agreements entered into under subsection (a) that by modifications to the existing regulatory agreement or mortgage extend the low income affordability restrictions through the term of the mortgage or, in the case of the prepayment of a mortgage, by a recorded instrument impose low income affordability restrictions (including the obligations specified in the regulatory agreement) through a period equivalent to the term of the original mortgage may include one or more of the following incentives that the Secretary, after taking into account local market conditions, determines to be necessary to achieve the purposes of this title:“(1) An increase in the allowable distribution or other measures to increase the rate of return on investment.

“(2) Revisions to the method of calculating equity.

“(3) Increased access to residual receipts accounts or excess replacement reserves.

“(4) Provision of insurance for a second mortgage under section 241(f) of the National Housing Act [12 U.S.C. 1715z–6(f)].

“(5) An increase in the rents permitted under an existing contract under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C. 1437f], or (subject to the availability of amounts provided in appropriation Acts) additional assistance under such section 8 or an extension of any project-based assistance attached to the housing.

“(6) Financing of capital improvements under section 201 of the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978 [12 U.S.C. 1715z–1a].

“(7) Other actions, authorized in other provisions of law, to facilitate a transfer or sale of the project to a qualified nonprofit organization, limited equity tenant cooperative, public agency, or other entity acceptable to the Secretary.

“(8) Other incentives authorized in law.


