§ 460t–1. Acquisition of land(a) Authority of Secretary; manner and place; visitor contact station and administrative site; exchange of property; cash equalization payments; State propertyThe Secretary is authorized to acquire by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, exchange, or otherwise, lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of the area. The Secretary is further authorized to acquire, by any of the above methods, not to exceed ten acres of land or interests therein outside of the boundaries of the area in the vicinity of Lovell, Wyoming, for development and use, pursuant to such special regulations as he may promulgate, as a visitor contact station and administrative site. In the exercise of his exchange authority the Secretary may accept title to any non-Federal property within the area and convey in exchange therefor any federally owned property under his jurisdiction in the States of Montana and Wyoming which he classifies as suitable for exchange or other disposal, notwithstanding any other provision of law. Property so exchanged shall be approximately equal in fair market value: Provided, That the Secretary may accept cash from, or pay cash to, the grantor in such an exchange in order to equalize the values of the properties exchanged. Any property or interest therein owned by the State of Montana or the State of Wyoming or any political subdivision thereof within the recreation area may be acquired only by donation or exchange.


(b) Crow Indian tribal landsNo part of the tribal mountain lands or any other lands of the Crow Indian Tribe of Montana shall be included within the recreation area unless requested by the council of the tribe. The Indian lands so included may be developed and administered in accordance with the laws and rules applicable to the recreation area, subject to any limitation specified by the tribal council and approved by the Secretary.


(c) Crow Indian recreational facilities; “shoreline” defined(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter or of any other law, the Crow Indian Tribe shall be permitted to develop and operate water-based recreational facilities, including landing ramps, boathouses, and fishing facilities, along that part of the shoreline of Yellowtail Reservoir which is adjacent to lands comprising the Crow Indian Reservation. Any such part so developed shall be administered in accordance with the laws and rules applicable to the recreation area, subject to any limitations specified by the tribal council and approved by the Secretary. Any revenues resulting from the operation of such facilities may be retained by the Crow Indian Tribe.

(2) As used in this subsection, the term “shoreline” means that land which borders both Yellowtail Reservoir and the exterior boundary of the Crow Indian Reservation, together with that part of the reservoir necessary to the development of the facilities referred to in this subsection.


(Pub. L. 89–664, § 2, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 913.)
