§ 2229. Strategic policy on prepositioning of materiel and equipment(a) Policy Required.—(1) In general.—The Secretary of Defense shall maintain a strategic policy on the programs of the Department of Defense for prepositioned materiel and equipment. Such policy shall take into account national security threats, strategic mobility, service requirements, and the requirements of the combatant commands, and shall address how the Department’s prepositioning programs, both ground and afloat, align with national defense strategies and departmental priorities.

(2) Elements.—The strategic policy required under paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:(A) Overarching strategic guidance concerning planning and resource priorities that link the Department of Defense’s current and future needs for prepositioned stocks, such as desired responsiveness, to evolving national defense objectives.

(B) A description of the Department’s vision for prepositioning programs and the desired end state.

(C) Specific interim goals demonstrating how the vision and end state will be achieved.

(D) A description of the strategic environment, requirements for, and challenges associated with, prepositioning.

(E) Metrics for how the Department will evaluate the extent to which prepositioned assets are achieving defense objectives.

(F) A framework for joint departmental oversight that reviews and synchronizes the military services’ prepositioning strategies to minimize potentially duplicative efforts and maximize efficiencies in prepositioned materiel and equipment across the Department of Defense.


(3) Joint oversight.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish joint oversight of the military services’ prepositioning efforts to maximize efficiencies across the Department of Defense.


(b) Limitation of Diversion of Prepositioned Materiel.—The Secretary of a military department may not divert materiel or equipment from prepositioned stocks except—(1) in accordance with a change made by the Secretary of Defense to the policy maintained under subsection (a); or

(2) for the purpose of directly supporting a contingency operation or providing humanitarian assistance under chapter 20 of this title.


(c) Congressional Notification.—The Secretary of Defense may not implement or change the policy required under subsection (a) until the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees a report describing the policy or change to the policy.

(d) Annual Certification.—(1) Not later than the date of the submission of the President’s budget request for a fiscal year under section 1105 of title 31, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees certification 11 So in original. Probably should be “a certification”. in writing that the prepositioned stocks of each of the military departments meet all operations plans, in both fill and readiness, that are in effect as of the date of the submission of the certification.

(2) If, for any year, the Secretary cannot certify that any of the prepositioned stocks meet such operations plans, the Secretary shall include with the certification for that year a list of the operations plans affected, a description of any measures that have been taken to mitigate any risk associated with prepositioned stock shortfalls, and an anticipated timeframe for the replenishment of the stocks.

(3) A certification under this subsection shall be in an unclassified form but may have a classified annex.


(Added Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title III, § 351(a), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2160; amended Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title III, § 341(a), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1369; Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title III, § 321(a), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 730.)

Amendments2013—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 113–66 amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary of Defense shall maintain a strategic policy on the programs of the Department of Defense for the prepositioning of materiel and equipment. Such policy shall take into account national security threats, strategic mobility, service requirements, and the requirements of the combatant commands.”
2011—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 112–81 added subsec. (d).

Implementation Plan and ReportPub. L. 113–66, div. A, title III, § 321(b), (c), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 731, 732, provided that:
“(b) Implementation Plan.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 26, 2013], the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] a plan for implementation of the prepositioning strategic policy required under section 2229(a) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a).

“(2) Elements.—The implementation plan required under paragraph (1) shall include the following elements:“(A) Detailed guidance for how the Department of Defense will achieve the vision, end state, and goals outlined in the strategic policy.

“(B) A comprehensive list of the Department’s prepositioned materiel and equipment programs.

“(C) A detailed description of how the plan will be implemented.

“(D) A schedule with milestones for the implementation of the plan.

“(E) An assignment of roles and responsibilities for the implementation of the plan.

“(F) A description of the resources required to implement the plan.

“(G) A description of how the plan will be reviewed and assessed to monitor progress.



“(c) Comptroller General Report.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States shall review the implementation plan submitted under subsection (b) and the prepositioning strategic policy required under section 2229(a) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a), and submit to the congressional defense committees a report describing the findings of such review and including any additional information relating to the propositioning strategic policy and plan that the Comptroller General determines appropriate.”




Deadline for Establishment of PolicyPub. L. 109–364, div. A, title III, § 351(c), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2160, provided that:
“(1) Deadline.—Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 17, 2006], the Secretary of Defense shall establish the strategic policy on the programs of the Department of Defense for the prepositioning of materiel and equipment required under section 2229 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).

“(2) Limitation on diversion of prepositioned materiel.—During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 17, 2006] and ending on the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the report required under section 2229(c) of title 10, United States Code, on the policy referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary of a military department may not divert materiel or equipment from prepositioned stocks except for the purpose of directly supporting a contingency operation or providing humanitarian assistance under chapter 20 of that title.”




Improving Department of Defense Support for Civil AuthoritiesPub. L. 109–364, div. A, title III, § 359, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2164, provided that:
“(a) Consultation.—In the development of concept plans for the Department of Defense for providing support to civil authorities, the Secretary of Defense may consult with the Secretary of Homeland Security and State governments.

“(b) Prepositioning of Department of Defense Assets.—The Secretary of Defense may provide for the prepositioning of prepackaged or preidentified basic response assets, such as medical supplies, food and water, and communications equipment, in order to improve the ability of the Department of Defense to rapidly provide support to civil authorities. The prepositioning of basic response assets shall be carried out in a manner consistent with Department of Defense concept plans for providing support to civil authorities and section 2229 of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 351.

“(c) Reimbursement.—To the extent required by section 1535 of title 31, United States Code, or other applicable law, the Secretary of Defense shall require that the Department of Defense be reimbursed for costs incurred by the Department in the prepositioning of basic response assets under subsection (b).

“(d) Military Readiness.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the prepositioning of basic response assets under subsection (b) does not adversely affect the military preparedness of the United States.

“(e) Procedures and Guidelines.—The Secretary may develop procedures and guidelines applicable to the prepositioning of basic response assets under subsection (b).”





