§ 410aaa–56. Acquisition of lands
The Secretary is authorized to acquire all lands and interest in lands within the boundary of the preserve by donation, purchase, or exchange, except that—(1) any lands or interests therein within the boundary of the preserve which are owned by the State of California, or any political subdivision thereof, may be acquired only by donation or exchange except for lands managed by the California State Lands Commission; and

(2) lands or interests therein within the boundary of the preserve which are not owned by the State of California or any political subdivision thereof may be acquired only with the consent of the owner thereof unless the Secretary determines, after written notice to the owner and after opportunity for comment, that the property is being developed, or proposed to be developed, in a manner which is detrimental to the integrity of the preserve or which is otherwise incompatible with the purposes of this part: Provided, however, That the construction, modification, repair, improvement, or replacement of a single-family residence shall not be determined to be detrimental to the integrity of the preserve or incompatible with the purposes of this part.

(Pub. L. 103–433, title V, § 516, Oct. 31, 1994, 108 Stat. 4494.)

Land Exchange, Mojave National PreservePub. L. 108–87, title VIII, § 8121, Sept. 30, 2003, 117 Stat. 1100, provided that:
“(a) Exchange Required.—In exchange for the private property described in subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the Veterans Home of California—Barstow, Veterans of Foreign Wars Post #385E (in this section referred to as the ‘recipient’), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real property consisting of approximately one acre in the Mojave National Preserve and designated (by section 8137 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2002 (Public Law 107–117; 115 Stat. 2278) [16 U.S.C. 431 note]) as a national memorial commemorating United States participation in World War I and honoring the American veterans of that war. Notwithstanding the conveyance of the property under this subsection, the Secretary shall continue to carry out the responsibilities of the Secretary under such section 8137.

“(b) Consideration.—As consideration for the property to be conveyed by the Secretary under subsection (a), Mr. and Mrs. Henry Sandoz of Mountain Pass, California, have agreed to convey to the Secretary a parcel of real property consisting of approximately five acres, identified as parcel APN 569–051–44, and located in the west ½ of the northeast ¼ of the northwest ¼ of the northwest ¼ of section 11, township 14 north, range 15 east, San Bernardino base and meridian.

“(c) Equal Value Exchange; Appraisal.—The values of the properties to be exchanged under this section shall be equal or equalized as provided in subsection (d). The value of the properties shall be determined through an appraisal performed by a qualified appraiser in conformance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions (Department of Justice, December 2000).

“(d) Cash Equalization.—Any difference in the value of the properties to be exchanged under this section shall be equalized through the making of a cash equalization payment. The Secretary shall deposit any cash equalization payment received by the Secretary under this subsection in the Land and Water Conservation Fund.

“(e) Reversionary Clause.—The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be subject to the condition that the recipient maintain the conveyed property as a memorial commemorating United States participation in World War I and honoring the American veterans of that war. If the Secretary determines that the conveyed property is no longer being maintained as a war memorial, the property shall revert to the ownership of the United States.

“(f) Boundary Adjustment; Administration of Acquired Land.—The boundaries of the Mojave National Preserve shall be adjusted to reflect the land exchange required by this section. The property acquired by the Secretary under this section shall become part of the Mojave National Preserve and be administered in accordance with the laws, rules, and regulations generally applicable to the Mojave National Preserve.”





