§ 1561. Complaints of sexual harassment: investigation by commanding officers(a) Action on Complaints Alleging Sexual Harassment.—A commanding officer or officer in charge of a unit, vessel, facility, or area of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps who receives from a member of the command or a civilian employee under the supervision of the officer a complaint alleging sexual harassment by a member of the armed forces or a civilian employee of the Department of Defense shall carry out an investigation of the matter in accordance with this section.

(b) Commencement of Investigation.—To the extent practicable, a commanding officer or officer in charge receiving such a complaint shall, within 72 hours after receipt of the complaint—(1) forward the complaint or a detailed description of the allegation to the next superior officer in the chain of command who is authorized to convene a general court-martial;

(2) commence, or cause the commencement of, an investigation of the complaint; and

(3) advise the complainant of the commencement of the investigation.


(c) Duration of Investigation.—To the extent practicable, a commanding officer or officer in charge receiving such a complaint shall ensure that the investigation of the complaint is completed not later than 14 days after the date on which the investigation is commenced.

(d) Report on Investigation.—To the extent practicable, a commanding officer or officer in charge receiving such a complaint shall—(1) submit a final report on the results of the investigation, including any action taken as a result of the investigation, to the next superior officer referred to in subsection (b)(1) within 20 days after the date on which the investigation is commenced; or

(2) submit a report on the progress made in completing the investigation to the next superior officer referred to in subsection (b)(1) within 20 days after the date on which the investigation is commenced and every 14 days thereafter until the investigation is completed and, upon completion of the investigation, then submit a final report on the results of the investigation, including any action taken as a result of the investigation, to that next superior officer.


(e) Sexual Harassment Defined.—In this section, the term “sexual harassment” means any of the following:(1) Conduct (constituting a form of sex discrimination) that—(A) involves unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and deliberate or repeated offensive comments or gestures of a sexual nature when—(i) submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of a person’s job, pay, or career;

(ii) submission to or rejection of such conduct by a person is used as a basis for career or employment decisions affecting that person; or

(iii) such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment; and


(B) is so severe or pervasive that a reasonable person would perceive, and the victim does perceive, the work environment as hostile or offensive.


(2) Any use or condonation, by any person in a supervisory or command position, of any form of sexual behavior to control, influence, or affect the career, pay, or job of a member of the armed forces or a civilian employee of the Department of Defense.

(3) Any deliberate or repeated unwelcome verbal comment or gesture of a sexual nature in the workplace by any member of the armed forces or civilian employee of the Department of Defense.


(Added Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title V, § 591(a)(1), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1760.)

Prior ProvisionsPrior sections 1571 to 1577, Pub. L. 89–690, § 1, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 1016, related to creation of Exemplary Rehabilitation Certificates to be issued by the Secretary of Labor to persons discharged or dismissed from the Armed Forces under conditions other than honorable or to persons who had received a general discharge but who had established that they had rehabilitated themselves and established the administrative and other authority in connection therewith, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 90–83, § 3(2), Sept. 11, 1967, 81 Stat. 220.

Short Title of 2002 AmendmentPub. L. 107–311, § 1, Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2455, provided that: “This Act [enacting section 1561a of this title] may be cited as the ‘Armed Forces Domestic Security Act’.”


Improved Climate Assessments and Dissemination of ResultsPub. L. 113–66, div. A, title V, § 587, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 778, provided that:
“(a) Improved Dissemination of Results in Chain of Command.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the results of command climate assessments are provided to the relevant individual commander and to the next higher level of command.

“(b) Evidence of Compliance.—The Secretary of each military department shall require in the performance evaluations and assessments used by each Armed Force under the jurisdiction of the Secretary a statement by the commander regarding whether the commander has conducted the required command climate assessments.

“(c) Effect of Failure to Conduct Assessment.—The failure of a commander to conduct the required command climate assessments shall be noted in the commander’s performance evaluation.”




Availability of Sexual Assault Nurse Examiners at Military Medical Treatment FacilitiesPub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, § 1725(b), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 971, provided that:
“(1) Facilities with full-time emergency department.—The Secretary of a military department shall require the assignment of at least one full-time sexual assault nurse examiner to each military medical treatment facility under the jurisdiction of that Secretary in which an emergency department operates 24 hours per day. The Secretary may assign additional sexual assault nurse examiners based on the demographics of the patients who utilize the military medical treatment facility.

“(2) Other facilities.—In the case of a military medical treatment facility not covered by paragraph (1), the Secretary of the military department concerned shall require that a sexual assault nurse examiner be made available to a patient of the facility, consistent with the Department of Justice National Protocol for Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examinations, Adult/Adolescent, when a determination is made regarding the patient’s need for the services of a sexual assault nurse examiner.

“(3) Qualifications.—A sexual assault nurse examiner assigned under paragraph (1) or made available under paragraph (2) shall meet such training and certification requirements as are prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.”




Commanding Officer Action on Reports on Sexual Offenses Involving Members of the Armed ForcesPub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, § 1742, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 979, provided that:
“(a) Immediate Action Required.—A commanding officer who receives a report of a sex-related offense involving a member of the Armed Forces in the chain of command of such officer shall act upon the report in accordance with subsection (b) immediately after receipt of the report by the commanding officer.

“(b) Action Required.—The action required by this subsection with respect to a report described in subsection (a) is the referral of the report to the military criminal investigation organization with responsibility for investigating that offense of the military department concerned or such other investigation service of the military department concerned as the Secretary of the military department concerned may specify for purposes of this section.”




Eight-Day Incident Reporting Requirement in Response to Unrestricted Report of Sexual Assault in Which the Victim is a Member of the Armed ForcesPub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, § 1743, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 979, provided that:
“(a) Incident Reporting Policy Requirement.—The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall establish and maintain a policy to require the submission by a designated person of a written incident report not later than eight days after an unrestricted report of sexual assault has been made in which a member of the Armed Forces is the victim. At a minimum, this incident report shall be provided to the following:“(1) The installation commander, if such incident occurred on or in the vicinity of a military installation.

“(2) The first officer in the grade of 0–6, and the first general officer or flag officer, in the chain of command of the victim.

“(3) The first officer in the grade of 0–6, and the first general officer or flag officer, in the chain of command of the alleged offender if the alleged offender is a member of the Armed Forces.


“(b) Purpose of Report.—The purpose of the required incident report under subsection (a) is to detail the actions taken or in progress to provide the necessary care and support to the victim of the assault, to refer the allegation of sexual assault to the appropriate investigatory agency, and to provide initial notification of the serious incident when that notification has not already taken place.

“(c) Elements of Report.—“(1) In general.—The report of an incident under subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum, the following:“(A) Time/Date/Location of the alleged incident.

“(B) Type of offense alleged.

“(C) Service affiliation, assigned unit, and location of the victim.

“(D) Service affiliation, assigned unit, and location of the alleged offender, including information regarding whether the alleged offender has been temporarily transferred or removed from an assigned billet or ordered to pretrial confinement or otherwise restricted, if applicable.

“(E) Post-incident actions taken in connection with the incident, including the following:“(i) Referral of the victim to a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator for referral to services available to members of the Armed Forces who are victims of sexual assault, including the date of each such referral.

“(ii) Notification of incident to appropriate military criminal investigative organization, including the organization notified and date of such notification.

“(iii) Receipt and processing status of a request for expedited victim transfer, if applicable.

“(iv) Issuance of any military protective orders in connection with the incident.



“(2) Modification.—“(A) In general.—The Secretary of Defense may modify the elements required in a report under this section regarding an incident involving a member of the Armed Forces (including the Coast Guard when it is operating as service in the Department of the Navy) if the Secretary determines that such modification will facilitate compliance with best practices for such reporting as identified by the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office of the Department of Defense.

“(B) Coast guard.—The Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating may modify the elements required in a report under this section regarding an incident involving a member of the Coast Guard if the Secretary determines that such modification will facilitate compliance with best practices for such reporting as identified by the Coast Guard Office of Work-Life Programs.



“(d) Regulations.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 26, 2013], the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.”




Inclusion and Command Review of Information on Sex-Related Offenses in Personnel Service Records of Members of the Armed ForcesPub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, § 1745, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 982, provided that:
“(a) Information on Reports on Sex-Related Offenses.—“(1) In general.—If a complaint of a sex-related offense is made against a member of the Armed Forces and the member is convicted by court-martial or receives non-judicial punishment or punitive administrative action for such sex-related offense, a notation to that effect shall be placed in the personnel service record of the member, regardless of the member’s grade.

“(2) Purpose.—The purpose of the inclusion of information in personnel service records under paragraph (1) is to alert commanders to the members of their command who have received courts-martial conviction, non-judicial punishment, or punitive administrative action for sex-related offenses in order to reduce the likelihood that repeat offenses will escape the notice of commanders.


“(b) Limitation on Placement.—A notation under subsection (a) may not be placed in the restricted section of the personnel service record of a member.

“(c) Construction.—Nothing in subsection (a) or (b) may be construed to prohibit or limit the capacity of a member of the Armed Forces to challenge or appeal the placement of a notation, or location of placement of a notation, in the member’s personnel service record in accordance with procedures otherwise applicable to such challenges or appeals.

“(d) Command Review of History of Sex-Related Offenses of Members Upon Assignment or Transfer to New Unit.—“(1) Review required.—Under uniform regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the commanding officer of a facility, installation, or unit to which a member of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (2) is permanently assigned or transferred shall review the history of sex-related offenses as documented in the personnel service record of the member in order to familiarize such officer with such history of the member.

“(2) Covered members.—A member of the Armed Forces described in this paragraph is a member of the Armed Forces who, at the time of assignment or transfer as described in paragraph (1), has a history of one or more sex-related offenses as documented in the personnel service record of such member or such other records or files as the Secretary shall specify in the regulations prescribed under paragraph (1).”





Establishment of Special Victim Capabilities Within the Military Departments To Respond to Allegations of Certain Special Victim OffensesPub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 573, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1755, provided that:
“(a) Establishment Required.—Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of each military department shall establish special victim capabilities for the purposes of—“(1) investigating and prosecuting allegations of child abuse, serious domestic violence, or sexual offenses; and

“(2) providing support for the victims of such offenses.


“(b) Personnel.—The special victim capabilities developed under subsection (a) shall include specially trained and selected—“(1) investigators from the Army Criminal Investigative Command, Naval Criminal Investigative Service, or Air Force Office of Special Investigations;

“(2) judge advocates;

“(3) victim witness assistance personnel; and

“(4) administrative paralegal support personnel.


“(c) Training, Selection, and Certification Standards.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe standards for the training, selection, and certification of personnel who will provide special victim capabilities for a military department.

“(d) Discretion Regarding Extent of Capabilities.—“(1) In general.—Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of a military department shall determine the extent to which special victim capabilities will be established within the military department and prescribe regulations for the management and use of the special victim capabilities.

“(2) Required elements.—At a minimum, the special victim capabilities established within a military department must provide effective, timely, and responsive world-wide support for the purposes described in subsection (a).


“(e) Time for Establishment.—“(1) Implementation plan.—Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 2, 2013], the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing—“(A) the plans and time lines of the Secretaries of the military departments for the establishment of the special victims capabilities; and

“(B) an assessment by the Secretary of Defense of the plans and time lines.


“(2) Initial capabilities.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of each military department shall have available an initial special victim capability consisting of the personnel specified in subsection (b).


“(f) Evaluation of Effectiveness.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall—“(1) prescribe the common criteria to be used by the Secretaries of the military departments to measure the effectiveness and impact of the special victim capabilities from the investigative, prosecutorial, and victim’s perspectives; and

“(2) require the Secretaries of the military departments to collect and report the data used to measure such effectiveness and impact.


“(g) Special Victim Capabilities Defined.—In this section, the term ‘special victim capabilities’ means a distinct, recognizable group of appropriately skilled professionals who work collaboratively to achieve the purposes described in subsection (a). This section does not require that the special victim capabilities be created as separate military unit or have a separate chain of command.”




Retention of Certain Forms in Connection With Restricted Reports and Unrestricted Reports on Sexual Assault Involving Members of the Armed ForcesPub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 577, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1762, as amended by Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, § 1723, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 970, provided that:
“(a) Period of Retention.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that all copies of Department of Defense Form 2910 and Department of Defense Form 2911 filed in connection with a Restricted Report or Unrestricted Report on an incident of sexual assault involving a member of the Armed Forces be retained for the longer of—“(1) 50 years commencing on the date of signature of the member on Department of Defense Form 2910; or

“(2) the time provided for the retention of such forms in connection with Unrestricted Reports on incidents of sexual assault involving members of the Armed Forces under Department of Defense Directive-Type Memorandum (DTM) 11–062, entitled ‘Document Retention in Cases of Restricted and Unrestricted Reports of Sexual Assault’, or any successor directive or policy.


“(b) Protection of Confidentiality.—Any Department of Defense form retained under subsection (a) shall be retained in a manner that protects the confidentiality of the member of the Armed Forces concerned in accordance with procedures for the protection of confidentiality of information in Restricted Reports under Department of Defense memorandum JTF–SAPR–009, relating to the Department of Defense policy on confidentiality for victims of sexual assault, or any successor policy or directive.”




General or Flag Officer Review of and Concurrence in Separation of Members of the Armed Forces Making an Unrestricted Report of Sexual AssaultPub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 578, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1763, provided that:
“(a) Review Required.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop a policy to require a general officer or flag officer of the Armed Forces to review the circumstances of, and grounds for, the proposed involuntary separation of any member of the Armed Forces who—“(1) made an Unrestricted Report of a sexual assault;

“(2) within one year after making the Unrestricted Report of a sexual assault, is recommended for involuntary separation from the Armed Forces; and

“(3) requests the review on the grounds that the member believes the recommendation for involuntary separation from the Armed Forces was initiated in retaliation for making the report.


“(b) Concurrence Required.—If a review is requested by a member of the Armed Forces as authorized by subsection (a), the concurrence of the general officer or flag officer conducting the review of the proposed involuntary separation of the member is required in order to separate the member.

“(c) Submission of Policy.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 2, 2013], the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing the policy developed under subsection (a).

“(d) Application of Policy.—The policy developed under subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of the submission of the policy to Congress under subsection (c) and apply to members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (a) who are proposed to be involuntarily separated from the Armed Forces on or after that date.”




Department of Defense Policy and Plan for Prevention and Response to Sexual Harassment in the Armed ForcesPub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 579, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1763, provided that:
“(a) Comprehensive Prevention and Response Policy.—“(1) Policy required.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop a comprehensive policy to prevent and respond to sexual harassment in the Armed Forces. The policy shall provide for the following:“(A) Training for members of the Armed Forces on the prevention of sexual harassment.

“(B) Mechanisms for reporting incidents of sexual harassment in the Armed Forces, including procedures for reporting anonymously.

“(C) Mechanisms for responding to and resolving incidents of alleged sexual harassment incidences involving members of the Armed Forces, including through the prosecution of offenders.


“(2) Report.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 2, 2013], the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the policy required by paragraph (1).

“(3) Consultation.—The Secretary of Defense shall prepare the policy and report required by this subsection in consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments and the Equal Opportunity Office of the Department of Defense.


“(b) Data Collection and Reporting Regarding Substantiated Incidents of Sexual Harassment.—“(1) Plan required.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan to collect information and data regarding substantiated incidents of sexual harassment involving members of the Armed Forces. The plan shall specifically deal with the need to identify cases in which a member is accused of multiple incidents of sexual harassment.

“(2) Submission of plan.—Not later than June 1, 2013, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives the plan developed under paragraph (1).

“(3) Reporting requirement.—As part of the reports required to be submitted in 2014 under section 1631 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111–383; 124 Stat. 4433; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note), the Secretary of Defense shall include information and data collected under the plan during the preceding year regarding substantiated incidents of sexual harassment involving members of the Armed Forces.”





Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault Victim AdvocatesPub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 584, Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1432, as amended by Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, § 1724, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 970, provided that:
“(a) Assignment of Coordinators.—“(1) Assignment requirements.—At least one full-time Sexual Assault Response Coordinator shall be assigned to each brigade or equivalent unit level of the armed forces. The Secretary of the military department concerned may assign additional Sexual Assault Response Coordinators as necessary based on the demographics or needs of the unit. An additional Sexual Assault Response Coordinator may serve on a full-time or part-time basis at the discretion of the Secretary.

“(2) Availability for reserve component members.—The Secretary of the military department concerned shall ensure the timely access to a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator by any member of the National Guard or Reserve who—“(A) is the victim of a sexual assault during the performance of duties as a member of the National Guard or Reserves; or

“(B) is the victim of a sexual assault committed by a member of the National Guard or Reserves.


“(3) Eligible persons.—On and after October 1, 2013, only members of the armed forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense may be assigned to duty as a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator.


“(b) Assignment of Victim Advocates.—“(1) Assignment requirements.—At least one full-time Sexual Assault Victim Advocate shall be assigned to each brigade or equivalent unit level of the armed forces. The Secretary of the military department concerned may assign additional Victim Advocates as necessary based on the demographics or needs of the unit. An additional Victim Advocate may serve on a full-time or part-time basis at the discretion of the Secretary.

“(2) Eligible persons.—On and after October 1, 2013, only members of the armed forces and civilian employees of the Department of Defense may be assigned to duty as a Victim Advocate.


“(c) Training and Certification.—“(1) Training and certification program.—As part of the sexual assault prevention and response program, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a professional and uniform training and certification program for Sexual Assault Response Coordinators assigned under subsection (a) and Sexual Assault Victim Advocates assigned under subsection (b). The program shall be structured and administered in a manner similar to the professional training available for Equal Opportunity Advisors through the Defense Equal Opportunity Management Institute.

“(2) Consultation.—In developing the curriculum and other components of the program, the Secretary of Defense shall work with experts outside of the Department of Defense who are experts in victim advocacy and sexual assault prevention and response training.

“(3) Effective date.—On and after October 1, 2013, before a member or civilian employee may be assigned to duty as a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator under subsection (a) or Victim Advocate under subsection (b), the member or employee must have completed the training program required by paragraph (1) and obtained the certification.


“(d) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) The term ‘armed forces’ means the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps.

“(2) The term ‘sexual assault prevention and response program’ has the meaning given such term in section 1601(a) of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111–383; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note).”





Training and Education Programs for Sexual Assault Prevention and Response ProgramPub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, § 1713(c), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 964, provided that: “The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the inclusion of information and discussion regarding the availability and use of the authority described by section 674 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), as part of the training for new and prospective commanders at all levels of command required by section 585(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112–81; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note).”

Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 585, Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1434, as amended by Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 574, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1756; Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title X, § 1091(c)(2), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 876, provided that:
“(a) Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Training and Education.—“(1) Development of curriculum.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 31, 2011], the Secretary of each military department shall develop a curriculum to provide sexual assault prevention and response training and education for members of the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of the Secretary and civilian employees of the military department to strengthen individual knowledge, skills, and capacity to prevent and respond to sexual assault. In developing the curriculum, the Secretary shall work with experts outside of the Department of Defense who are experts in sexual assault prevention and response training.

“(2) Scope of training and education.—The sexual assault prevention and response training and education shall encompass initial entry and accession programs, annual refresher training, professional military education, peer education, and specialized leadership training. Training shall be tailored for specific leadership levels and local area requirements.

“(3) Consistent training.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the sexual assault prevention and response training provided to members of the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian employees is consistent throughout the military departments.


“(b) Inclusion in Professional Military Education.—The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the inclusion of a sexual assault prevention and response training module at each level of professional military education. The training shall be tailored to the new responsibilities and leadership requirements of members of the Armed Forces as they are promoted.

“(c) Inclusion in First Responder Training.—“(1) In general.—The Secretary of Defense shall direct that managers of specialty skills associated with first responders described in paragraph (2) integrate sexual assault response training in initial and recurring training courses.

“(2) Covered first responders.—First responders referred to in paragraph (1) include firefighters, emergency medical technicians, law enforcement officers, military criminal investigators, healthcare personnel, judge advocates, and chaplains.


“(d) Commanders’ Training.—The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the inclusion of a sexual assault prevention and response training module in the training for new or prospective commanders at all levels of command. The training shall be tailored to the responsibilities and leadership requirements of members of the Armed Forces as they are assigned to command positions. Such training shall include the following:“(1) Fostering a command climate that does not tolerate sexual assault.

“(2) Fostering a command climate in which persons assigned to the command are encouraged to intervene to prevent potential incidents of sexual assault.

“(3) Fostering a command climate that encourages victims of sexual assault to report any incident of sexual assault.

“(4) Understanding the needs of, and the resources available to, the victim after an incident of sexual assault.

“(5) Use of military criminal investigative organizations for the investigation of alleged incidents of sexual assault.

“(6) Available disciplinary options, including court-martial, non-judicial punishment, administrative action, and deferral of discipline for collateral misconduct, as appropriate.


“(e) Explanation to Be Included in Initial Entry and Accession Training.—“(1) Requirement.—The Secretary of Defense shall require that the matters specified in paragraph (2) be carefully explained to each member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps at the time of (or within fourteen duty days after)—“(A) the member’s initial entrance on active duty; or

“(B) the member’s initial entrance into a duty status with a reserve component.


“(2) Matters to be explained.—This subsection applies with respect to the following:“(A) Department of Defense policy with respect to sexual assault.

“(B) The resources available with respect to sexual assault reporting and prevention and the procedures to be followed by a member seeking to access those resources.”





[Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title X, § 1091(c), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 876, provided in part that the amendment made by section 1091(c)(2) to section 585 of Pub. L. 112–81, set out above, is effective as of Dec. 31, 2011, and as if included in Pub. L. 112–81 as enacted.]

Department of Defense Policy and Procedures on Retention and Access to Evidence and Records Relating to Sexual Assaults Involving Members of the Armed ForcesPub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 586(a)–(d), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1434, 1435, provided that:
“(a) Comprehensive Policy on Retention and Access to Records.—Not later than October 1, 2012, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, develop a comprehensive policy for the Department of Defense on the retention of and access to evidence and records relating to sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces.

“(b) Objectives.—The comprehensive policy required by subsection (a) shall include policies and procedures (including systems of records) necessary to ensure preservation of records and evidence for periods of time that ensure that members of the Armed Forces and veterans of military service who were the victims of sexual assault during military service are able to substantiate claims for veterans benefits, to support criminal or civil prosecutions by military or civil authorities, and for such purposes relating to the documentation of the incidence of sexual assault in the Armed Forces as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.

“(c) Elements.—In developing the comprehensive policy required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall consider, at a minimum, the following matters:“(1) Identification of records, including non-Department of Defense records, relating to an incident of sexual assault, that must be retained.

“(2) Criteria for collection and retention of records.

“(3) Identification of physical evidence and non-documentary forms of evidence relating to sexual assaults that must be retained.

“(4) Length of time records, including Department of Defense Forms 2910 and 2911, and evidence must be retained, except that—“(A) the length of time physical evidence and forensic evidence must be retained shall be not less than five years; and

“(B) the length of time documentary evidence relating to sexual assaults must be retained shall be not less than the length of time investigative records relating to reports of sexual assaults of that type (restricted or unrestricted reports) must be retained.


“(5) Locations where records must be stored.

“(6) Media which may be used to preserve records and assure access, including an electronic systems [sic] of records.

“(7) Protection of privacy of individuals named in records and status of records under section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the ‘Freedom of Information Act’), section 552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the ‘Privacy Act’), restricted reporting cases, and laws related to privilege.

“(8) Access to records by victims of sexual assault, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and others, including alleged assailants and law enforcement authorities.

“(9) Responsibilities for record retention by the military departments.

“(10) Education and training on record retention requirements.

“(11) Uniform collection of data on the incidence of sexual assaults and on disciplinary actions taken in substantiated cases of sexual assault.


“(d) Uniform Application to Military Departments.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that, to the maximum extent practicable, the policy developed under subsection (a) is implemented uniformly by the military departments.”




Improved Sexual Assault Prevention and Response in the Armed ForcesPub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 572, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1753, as amended by Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, § 1721, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 970, provided that:
“(a) Policy Modifications.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 2, 2013], the Secretary of Defense shall modify the revised comprehensive policy for the Department of Defense sexual assault prevention and response program required by section 1602 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111–383; 124 Stat. 4430; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note) to include in the policy the following new requirements:“(1) Subject to subsection (b), a requirement that the Secretary of each military department establish a record on the disposition of any Unrestricted Report of sexual assault involving a member of the Armed Forces, whether such disposition is court martial, nonjudicial punishment, or other administrative action.

“(2) A requirement that the Secretary of each military department establish policies to require the processing for administrative separation of any member of the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of such Secretary whose conviction for a covered offense is final and who is not punitively discharged from the Armed Forces in connection with such conviction. Such requirement—“(A) shall ensure that any separation decision is based on the full facts of the case and that due process procedures are provided under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense; and

“(B) shall not be interpreted to limit or alter the authority of the Secretary of the military department concerned to process members of the Armed Forces for administrative separation for other offenses or under other provisions of law.


“(3) A requirement that the commander of each military command and other units specified by the Secretary of Defense for purposes of the policy shall conduct, within 120 days after the commander assumes command and at least annually thereafter while retaining command, a climate assessment of the command or unit for purposes of preventing and responding to sexual assaults. The climate assessment shall include an opportunity for members of the Armed Forces to express their opinions regarding the manner and extent to which their leaders, including commanders, respond to allegations of sexual assault and complaints of sexual harassment and the effectiveness of such response.

“(4) A requirement to post and widely disseminate information about resources available to report and respond to sexual assaults, including the establishment of hotline phone numbers and Internet websites available to all members of the Armed Forces.

“(5) A requirement for a general education campaign to notify members of the Armed Forces regarding the authorities available under chapter 79 of title 10, United States Code, for the correction of military records when a member experiences any retaliatory personnel action for making a report of sexual assault or sexual harassment.


“(b) Additional Requirements Regarding Disposition Records of Sexual Assault Reports.—“(1) Elements.—The record of the disposition of an Unrestricted Report of sexual assault established under subsection (a)(1) shall include information regarding the following, as appropriate:“(A) Documentary information collected about the incident, other than investigator case notes.

“(B) Punishment imposed, including the sentencing by judicial or non-judicial means, including incarceration, fines, restriction, and extra duty as a result of military court-martial, Federal or local court and other sentencing, or any other punishment imposed.

“(C) Adverse administrative actions taken against the subject of the investigation, if any.

“(D) Any pertinent referrals made for the subject of the investigation, offered as a result of the incident, such as drug and alcohol counseling and other types of counseling or intervention.


“(2) Retention of records.—The Secretary of Defense shall require that—“(A) the disposition records established pursuant to subsection (a)(1) be retained for a period of not less than 20 years; and

“(B) information from the records that satisfies the reporting requirements established in section 1631 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111–383; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note) be incorporated into the Defense Sexual Assault Incident Database and maintained for the same period as applies to retention of the records under subparagraph (A).



“(c) Covered Offense Defined.—For purposes of subsection (a)(2), the term ‘covered offense’ means the following:“(1) Rape or sexual assault under subsection (a) or (b) of section 920 of title 10, United States Code (article 120 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).

“(2) Forcible sodomy under section 925 of title 10, United States Code (article 125 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).

“(3) An attempt to commit an offense specified in paragraph (1) or (2) under section 880 of title 10, United States Code (article 80 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).


“(d) Tracking of Organizational Climate Assessment Compliance.—The Secretary of Defense shall direct the Secretaries of the military departments to verify and track the compliance of commanding officers in conducting organizational climate assessments, as required by subsection (a)(3).”



Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title XVI, Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4429, as amended by Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 583, Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1432; Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 575(a), (b), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1757, 1758; Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, §§ 1725(a), 1726, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 971, 972, provided that:
“SEC. 1601. DEFINITION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE PROGRAM AND OTHER DEFINITIONS.“(a) Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program Defined.—In this title, the term ‘sexual assault prevention and response program’ refers to Department of Defense policies and programs, including policies and programs of a specific military department or Armed Force, that, as modified as required by this title—“(1) are intended to reduce the number of sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces, whether members are the victim, alleged assailant, or both; and

“(2) improve the response of the Department of Defense, the military departments, and the Armed Forces to reports of sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces, whether members are the victim, alleged assailant, or both, and to reports of sexual assaults when a covered beneficiary under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is the victim.


“(b) Other Definitions.—In this title:“(1) The term ‘Armed Forces’ means the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps.

“(2) The terms ‘covered beneficiary’ and ‘dependent’ have the meanings given those terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.

“(3) The term ‘department’ has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(6) of title 10, United States Code.

“(4) The term ‘military installation’ has the meaning given that term by the Secretary concerned.

“(5) The term ‘Secretary concerned’ means—“(A) the Secretary of the Army, with respect to matters concerning the Army;

“(B) the Secretary of the Navy, with respect to matters concerning the Navy and the Marine Corps; and

“(C) the Secretary of the Air Force, with respect to matters concerning the Air Force.


“(6) The term ‘sexual assault’ has the definition developed for that term by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (a)(3) of section 577 of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108–375; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) [now set out below], subject to such modifications as the Secretary considers appropriate.


