§ 823c. Alaska State jurisdiction over small hydroelectric projects(a) Discontinuance of regulation by the CommissionNotwithstanding sections 797(e) and 817 of this title, the Commission shall discontinue exercising licensing and regulatory authority under this subchapter over qualifying project works in the State of Alaska, effective on the date on which the Commission certifies that the State of Alaska has in place a regulatory program for water-power development that—(1) protects the public interest, the purposes listed in paragraph (2), and the environment to the same extent provided by licensing and regulation by the Commission under this subchapter and other applicable Federal laws, including the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) and the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661 et seq.);

(2) gives equal consideration to the purposes of—(A) energy conservation;

(B) the protection, mitigation of damage to, and enhancement of, fish and wildlife (including related spawning grounds and habitat);

(C) the protection of recreational opportunities;

(D) the preservation of other aspects of environmental quality;

(E) the interests of Alaska Natives; and

(F) other beneficial public uses, including irrigation, flood control, water supply, and navigation; and


(3) requires, as a condition of a license for any project works—(A) the construction, maintenance, and operation by a licensee at its own expense of such lights and signals as may be directed by the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, and such fishways as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Commerce, as appropriate;

(B) the operation of any navigation facilities which may be constructed as part of any project to be controlled at all times by such reasonable rules and regulations as may be made by the Secretary of the Army; and

(C) except as provided in subsection (j) of this section, conditions for the protection, mitigation, and enhancement of fish and wildlife based on recommendations received pursuant to the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661 et seq.) from the National Marine Fisheries Service, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and State fish and wildlife agencies.



(b) Definition of “qualifying project works”For purposes of this section, the term “qualifying project works” means project works—(1) that are not part of a project licensed under this part or exempted from licensing under this subchapter or section 2705 of this title prior to November 9, 2000;

(2) for which a preliminary permit, a license application, or an application for an exemption from licensing has not been accepted for filing by the Commission prior to November 9, 2000 (unless such application is withdrawn at the election of the applicant);

(3) that are part of a project that has a power production capacity of 5,000 kilowatts or less;

(4) that are located entirely within the boundaries of the State of Alaska; and

(5) that are not located in whole or in part on any Indian reservation, a conservation system unit (as defined in section 3102(4) of this title), or segment of a river designated for study for addition to the Wild and Scenic Rivers System.


(c) Election of State licensingIn the case of nonqualifying project works that would be a qualifying project works but for the fact that the project has been licensed (or exempted from licensing) by the Commission prior to November 9, 2000, the licensee of such project may in its discretion elect to make the project subject to licensing and regulation by the State of Alaska under this section.


(d) Project works on Federal landsWith respect to projects located in whole or in part on a reservation, a conservation system unit, or the public lands, a State license or exemption from licensing shall be subject to—(1) the approval of the Secretary having jurisdiction over such lands; and

(2) such conditions as the Secretary may prescribe.


(e) Consultation with affected agenciesThe Commission shall consult with the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of Commerce before certifying the State of Alaska’s regulatory program.


(f) Application of Federal lawsNothing in this section shall preempt the application of Federal environmental, natural resources, or cultural resources protection laws according to their terms.


(g) Oversight by the CommissionThe State of Alaska shall notify the Commission not later than 30 days after making any significant modification to its regulatory program. The Commission shall periodically review the State’s program to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section.


(h) Resumption of Commission authorityNotwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the Commission shall reassert its licensing and regulatory authority under this subchapter if the Commission finds that the State of Alaska has not complied with one or more of the requirements of this section.


(i) Determination by the Commission(1) Upon application by the Governor of the State of Alaska, the Commission shall within 30 days commence a review of the State of Alaska’s regulatory program for water-power development to determine whether it complies with the requirements of subsection (a) of this section.

(2) The Commission’s review required by paragraph (1) shall be completed within 1 year of initiation, and the Commission shall within 30 days thereafter issue a final order determining whether or not the State of Alaska’s regulatory program for water-power development complies with the requirements of subsection (a) of this section.

(3) If the Commission fails to issue a final order in accordance with paragraph (2) the State of Alaska’s regulatory program for water-power development shall be deemed to be in compliance with subsection (a) of this section.


(j) Fish and wildlifeIf the State of Alaska determines that a recommendation under subsection (a)(3)(C) of this section is inconsistent with paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of this section, the State of Alaska may decline to adopt all or part of the recommendations in accordance with the procedures established under section 803(j)(2) of this title.


(June 10, 1920, ch. 285, pt. I, § 32, as added Pub. L. 106–469, title V, § 501, Nov. 9, 2000, 114 Stat. 2037; amended Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 244, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 678.)


References in TextThe Endangered Species Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), probably means the Endangered Species Act of 1973, Pub. L. 93–205, Dec. 28, 1973, 87 Stat. 884, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1531 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1531 of this title and Tables.
The Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), (3)(C), is act Mar. 10, 1934, ch. 55, 48 Stat. 401, as amended, which is classified generally to sections 661 to 666c of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 661 of this title and Tables.

Amendments2005—Subsec. (a)(3)(C). Pub. L. 109–58, § 244(1), inserted “except as provided in subsection (j) of this section,” before “conditions”.
Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 109–58, § 244(2), added subsec. (j).


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


