“SEC. 102. AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.“(a) Interim Authority.—The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in this title referred to as the ‘Secretary’) is authorized to manage leases in existence on the date of this Act [Nov. 12, 1996] for properties under the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary and located at the Presidio. Upon the expiration of any such lease, the Secretary may extend such lease for a period terminating not later than 6 months after the first meeting of the Presidio Trust. The Secretary may not enter into any new leases for property at the Presidio to be transferred to the Presidio Trust under this title, however, the Secretary is authorized to enter into agreements for use and occupancy of the Presidio properties which are assignable to the Trust and are terminable with 30 days notice. Prior to the transfer of administrative jurisdiction over any property to the Presidio Trust, and notwithstanding section 1341 of title 31 of the United States Code, the proceeds from any such lease shall be retained by the Secretary and such proceeds shall be available, without further appropriation, for the preservation, restoration, operation and maintenance, improvement, repair and related expenses incurred with respect to Presidio properties. The Secretary may adjust the rental charge on any such lease for any amounts to be expended by the lessee for preservation, maintenance, restoration, improvement, repair and related expenses with respect to properties and infrastructure within the Presidio.

“(b) Public Information and Interpretation.—The Secretary shall be responsible, in cooperation with the Presidio Trust, for providing public interpretive services, visitor orientation and educational programs on all lands within the Presidio.

“(c) Other.—Those lands and facilities within the Presidio that are not transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the Presidio Trust shall continue to be managed by the Secretary. The Secretary and the Presidio Trust shall cooperate to ensure adequate public access to all portions of the Presidio. Any infrastructure and building improvement projects that were funded prior to the enactment of this Act [Nov. 12, 1996] shall be completed by the National Park Service.

“(d) Park Service Employees.—(1) Any career employee of the National Park Service, employed at the Presidio at the time of the transfer of lands and facilities to the Presidio Trust, shall not be separated from the Service by reason of such transfer, unless such employee is employed by the Trust, other than on detail. Notwithstanding section 3503 of title 5, United States Code, the Trust shall have sole discretion over whether to hire any such employee or request a detail of such employee.

“(2) Any career employee of the National Park Service employed at the Presidio on the date of enactment of this title [Nov. 12, 1996] shall be given priority placement for any available position within the National Park System notwithstanding any priority reemployment lists, directives, rules, regulations or other orders from the Department of the Interior, the Office of Management and Budget, or other Federal agencies.


