§ 839g. Savings provisions(a) Rights of States and political subdivisions of StatesNothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect or modify any right of any State or political subdivision thereof or electric utility to—(1) determine retail electric rates, except as provided by section 839c(c)(3) of this title;

(2) develop and implement plans and programs for the conservation, development, and use of resources; or

(3) make energy facility siting decisions, including, but not limited to, determining the need for a particular facility, evaluating alternative sites, and considering alternative methods of meeting the determined need.


(b) Rights and obligations under existing contractsNothing in this chapter shall alter, diminish, or abridge the rights and obligations of the Administrator or any customer under any contract existing as of December 5, 1980.


(c) Statutory preferences and priorities of public bodies and cooperatives in sale of federally generated powerNothing in this chapter shall alter, diminish, abridge, or otherwise affect the provisions of other Federal laws by which public bodies and cooperatives are entitled to preference and priority in the sale of federally generated electric power.


(d) Contractual rights under provisions later found to be unconstitutionalIf any provision of this chapter is found to be unconstitutional, then any contract entered into by the Administrator, prior to such finding and in accordance with such provisions, to sell power, acquire or credit resources, or to reimburse investigation and preconstruction expenses pursuant to section 839c of this title, and section 839d(a), (f) or (h) of this title shall not be affected by such finding.


(e) Treaty and other rights of Indian tribesNothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect or modify any treaty or other right of an Indian tribe.


(f) Reservation of electric power for Montana; Hungry Horse and Libby Dams and ReservoirsThe reservation under law of electric power primarily for use in the State of Montana by reason of the construction of Hungry Horse and Libby Dams and Reservoirs within that State is hereby affirmed. Such reservation shall also apply to 50 per centum of any electric power produced at Libby Reregulating Dam if built. Electric power so reserved shall be sold at the rate or rates set pursuant to section 839e of this title.


(g) Rights of States to prohibit recovery of resource construction costs through retail ratesNothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect or modify the right of any State to prohibit utilities regulated by the appropriate State regulatory body from recovering, through their retail rates, costs during any period of resource construction.


(h) Water appropriationsNothing in this chapter shall be construed as authorizing the appropriation of water by any Federal, State, or local agency, Indian tribe, or any other entity or individual. Nor shall any provision of this chapter of any plan or program adopted pursuant to the chapter (1) affect the rights or jurisdictions of the United States, the States, Indian tribes, or other entities over waters of any river or stream or over any groundwater resource, (2) alter, amend, repeal, interpret, modify, or be in conflict with any interstate compact made by the States, or (3) otherwise be construed to alter or establish the respective rights of States, the United States, Indian tribes, or any person with respect to any water or water-related right.


(i) Existing Federal licenses, permits, and certificatesNothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect the validity of any existing license, permit, or certificate issued by any Federal agency pursuant to any other Federal law.


(Pub. L. 96–501, § 10, Dec. 5, 1980, 94 Stat. 2734.)
