§ 459h–9. Gulf Islands National Seashore Advisory Commission; establishment; termination; membership; term; Chairman; compensation and payment of expenses; consultation by Secretary
There is hereby established a Gulf Islands National Seashore Advisory Commission. The Commission shall terminate ten years after the date the seashore is established pursuant to sections 459h to 459h–10 of this title. The Commission shall be composed of three members from each county in which the seashore is located, each appointed for a term of two years by the Secretary as follows:(1) one member to be appointed from recommendations made by the county commissioners in the respective counties;

(2) one member to be appointed from recommendations made by the Governor of the State from each county; and

(3) one member to be designated by the Secretary from each county.


Provided, That two members shall be appointed to the Advisory Commission in each instance in counties whose population exceeds one hundred thousand.

The Secretary shall designate one member to be Chairman. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.

Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation as such. The Secretary is authorized to pay the expenses reasonably incurred by the Commission in carrying out its responsibilities under sections 459h to 459h–10 of this title on vouchers signed by the Chairman.

The Secretary or his designee shall, from time to time, consult with the Commission with respect to the matters relating to the development of the Gulf Islands National Seashore.
(Pub. L. 91–660, § 10, Jan. 8, 1971, 84 Stat. 1969.)

Termination of Advisory CommissionsAdvisory commissions in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a commission established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such commission is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a commission established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See sections 3(2) and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


