“SEC. 1022. MILITARY CUSTODY FOR FOREIGN AL-QAEDA TERRORISTS.“(a) Custody Pending Disposition Under Law of War.—“(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (4), the Armed Forces of the United States shall hold a person described in paragraph (2) who is captured in the course of hostilities authorized by the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107–40) in military custody pending disposition under the law of war.

“(2) Covered persons.—The requirement in paragraph (1) shall apply to any person whose detention is authorized under section 1021 who is determined—“(A) to be a member of, or part of, al-Qaeda or an associated force that acts in coordination with or pursuant to the direction of al-Qaeda; and

“(B) to have participated in the course of planning or carrying out an attack or attempted attack against the United States or its coalition partners.


“(3) Disposition under law of war.—For purposes of this subsection, the disposition of a person under the law of war has the meaning given in section 1021(c), except that no transfer otherwise described in paragraph (4) of that section shall be made unless consistent with the requirements of section 1028.

“(4) Waiver for national security.—The President may waive the requirement of paragraph (1) if the President submits to Congress a certification in writing that such a waiver is in the national security interests of the United States.


“(b) Applicability to United States Citizens and Lawful Resident Aliens.—“(1) United states citizens.—The requirement to detain a person in military custody under this section does not extend to citizens of the United States.

“(2) Lawful resident aliens.—The requirement to detain a person in military custody under this section does not extend to a lawful resident alien of the United States on the basis of conduct taking place within the United States, except to the extent permitted by the Constitution of the United States.


“(c) Implementation Procedures.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 31, 2011], the President shall issue, and submit to Congress, procedures for implementing this section.

“(2) Elements.—The procedures for implementing this section shall include, but not be limited to, procedures as follows:“(A) Procedures designating the persons authorized to make determinations under subsection (a)(2) and the process by which such determinations are to be made.

“(B) Procedures providing that the requirement for military custody under subsection (a)(1) does not require the interruption of ongoing surveillance or intelligence gathering with regard to persons not already in the custody or control of the United States.

“(C) Procedures providing that a determination under subsection (a)(2) is not required to be implemented until after the conclusion of an interrogation which is ongoing at the time the determination is made and does not require the interruption of any such ongoing interrogation.

“(D) Procedures providing that the requirement for military custody under subsection (a)(1) does not apply when intelligence, law enforcement, or other Government officials of the United States are granted access to an individual who remains in the custody of a third country.

“(E) Procedures providing that a certification of national security interests under subsection (a)(4) may be granted for the purpose of transferring a covered person from a third country if such a transfer is in the interest of the United States and could not otherwise be accomplished.



“(d) Authorities.—Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the existing criminal enforcement and national security authorities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation or any other domestic law enforcement agency with regard to a covered person, regardless whether such covered person is held in military custody.

“(e) Effective Date.—This section shall take effect on the date that is 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect to persons described in subsection (a)(2) who are taken into the custody or brought under the control of the United States on or after that effective date.

