§ 460rrr–3. Powers of the Commission(a) HearingsThe Commission may hold such hearings, meet and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the Commission considers advisable to carry out this subchapter.


(b) Cooperative agreements(1) In generalFor purposes of carrying out the management plan on non-Federal land in the Natural Area, the Commission may enter into a cooperative agreement with the State of Colorado, a political subdivision of the State, or any person.


(2) RequirementsA cooperative agreement entered into under paragraph (1) shall establish procedures for providing notice to the Commission of any action proposed by the State of Colorado, a political subdivision of the State, or any person that may affect the implementation of the management plan on non-Federal land in the Natural Area.


(3) EffectA cooperative agreement entered into under paragraph (1) shall not enlarge or diminish any right or duty of a Federal agency under Federal law.



(c) Prohibition of acquisition of real propertyThe Commission may not acquire any real property or interest in real property.


(d) Implementation of management plan(1) In generalThe Commission shall assist the Secretary in implementing the management plan by carrying out the activities described in paragraph (2) to preserve and interpret the natural, historic, cultural, scientific, scenic, wildlife, and recreational resources of the Natural Area.


(2) Authorized activitiesIn assisting with the implementation of the management plan under paragraph (1), the Commission may—(A) assist the State of Colorado in preserving State land and wildlife within the Natural Area;

(B) assist the State of Colorado and political subdivisions of the State in increasing public awareness of, and appreciation for, the natural, historic, scientific, scenic, wildlife, and recreational resources in the Natural Area;

(C) encourage political subdivisions of the State of Colorado to adopt and implement land use policies that are consistent with—(i) the management of the Natural Area; and

(ii) the management plan; and


(D) encourage and assist private landowners in the Natural Area in the implementation of the management plan.



(Pub. L. 109–337, § 5, Oct. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 1778.)
