§ 460ooo–6. Land acquisition(a) In general(1) Priority to conservation easementsIn acquiring lands or interest in lands under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to such acquisitions in the form of conservation easements.


(2) Private landsThe Secretary is authorized to acquire privately held lands or interest in lands within the boundaries of the Acquisition Planning District only from a willing seller through donation, exchange, or purchase.


(3) County landsThe Secretary is authorized to acquire county lands or interest in lands within the boundaries of the Acquisition Planning District only with the consent of the county through donation, exchange, or purchase.


(4) State lands(A) In generalThe Secretary is authorized to acquire lands or interest in lands owned by the State of Arizona located within the boundaries of the Acquisition Planning District only with the consent of the State and in accordance with State law, by donation, exchange, or purchase.


(B) ConsiderationAs consideration for the acquisitions by the United States of lands or interest in lands under this paragraph, the Secretary shall pay fair market value for such lands or shall convey to the State of Arizona all or some interest in Federal lands (including buildings and other improvements on such lands or other Federal property other than real property) or any other asset of equal value within the State of Arizona.


(C) Transfer of jurisdictionAll Federal agencies are authorized to transfer jurisdiction of Federal lands or interest in lands (including buildings and other improvements on such lands or other Federal property other than real property) or any other asset within the State of Arizona to the Bureau of Land Management for the purpose of acquiring lands or interest in lands as provided for in this paragraph.




(b) Management of acquired landsLands acquired under this section shall, upon acquisition, become part of the Conservation Area and shall be administered as part of the Conservation Area. These lands shall be managed in accordance with this subchapter, other applicable laws, and the management plan.


(Pub. L. 106–538, § 7, Dec. 6, 2000, 114 Stat. 2567.)
