§ 460nnn–72. Donner und Blitzen River Redband Trout Reserve(a) FindingsThe Congress finds the following:(1) Those portions of the Donner und Blitzen River in the Wilderness Area are an exceptional environmental resource that provides habitat for unique populations of native fish, migratory waterfowl, and other wildlife resources, including a unique population of redband trout.

(2) Redband trout represent a unique natural history reflecting the Pleistocene connection between the lake basins of eastern Oregon and the Snake and Columbia Rivers.


(b) Designation of ReserveThe Secretary shall designate the Donner und Blitzen Redband Trout Reserve consisting of the Donner und Blitzen River in the Wilderness Area above its confluence with Fish Creek and the Federal riparian lands immediately adjacent to the river.


(c) Reserve purposesThe purposes of the Redband Trout Reserve are—(1) to conserve, protect, and enhance the Donner und Blitzen River population of redband trout and the unique ecosystem of plants, fish, and wildlife of a river system; and

(2) to provide opportunities for scientific research, environmental education, and fish and wildlife oriented recreation and access to the extent compatible with paragraph (1).


(d) Exclusion of private landsThe Redband Trout Reserve does not include any private lands adjacent to the Donner und Blitzen River or its tributaries.


(e) Administration(1) In generalThe Secretary shall administer all lands, waters, and interests therein in the Redband Trout Reserve consistent with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1271 et seq.).


(2) ConsultationIn administering the Redband Trout Reserve, the Secretary shall consult with the advisory council and cooperate with the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife.


(3) Relation to recreationTo the extent consistent with applicable law, the Secretary shall manage recreational activities in the Redband Trout Reserve in a manner that conserves the unique population of redband trout native to the Donner und Blitzen River.


(4) Removal of damThe Secretary shall remove the dam located below the mouth of Fish Creek and above Page Springs if removal of the dam is scientifically justified and funds are available for such purpose.



(f) Outreach and educationThe Secretary may work with, provide technical assistance to, provide community outreach and education programs for or with, or enter into cooperative agreements with private landowners, State and local governments or agencies, and conservation organizations to further the purposes of the Redband Trout Reserve.


(Pub. L. 106–399, title III, § 302, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1668.)


References in TextThe Wilderness Act, referred to in subsec. (e)(1), is Pub. L. 88–577, Sept. 3, 1964, 78 Stat. 890, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 23 (§ 1131 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1131 of this title and Tables.
The Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, referred to in subsec. (e)(1), is Pub. L. 90–542, Oct. 2, 1968, 82 Stat. 906, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 28 (§ 1271 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1271 of this title and Tables.


