§ 460l–6c. Admission, entrance, and recreation fees(a) DefinitionsAs used in this section:(1) Area of concentrated public useThe term “area of concentrated public use” means an area administered by the Secretary that meets each of the following criteria:(A) The area is managed primarily for outdoor recreation purposes.

(B) Facilities and services necessary to accommodate heavy public use are provided in the area.

(C) The area contains at least 1 major recreation attraction.

(D) Public access to the area is provided in such a manner that admission fees can be efficiently collected at 1 or more centralized locations.


(2) Boat launching facilityThe term “boat launching facility” includes any boat launching facility, regardless of whether specialized facilities or services, such as mechanical or hydraulic boat lifts or facilities, are provided.


(3) CampgroundThe term “campground” means any campground where a majority of the following amenities are provided, as determined by the Secretary:(A) Tent or trailer spaces.

(B) Drinking water.

(C) An access road.

(D) Refuse containers.

(E) Toilet facilities.

(F) The personal collection of recreation use fees by an employee or agent of the Secretary.

(G) Reasonable visitor protection.

(H) If campfires are permitted in the campground, simple devices for containing the fires.


(4) SecretaryThe term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture.



(b) Authority to impose feesThe Secretary may charge—(1) admission or entrance fees at national monuments, national volcanic monuments, national scenic areas, and areas of concentrated public use administered by the Secretary; and

(2) recreation use fees at lands administered by the Secretary in connection with the use of specialized outdoor recreation sites, equipment, services, and facilities, including visitors’ centers, picnic tables, boat launching facilities, and campgrounds.


(c) Amount of feesThe amount of the admission, entrance, and recreation fees authorized to be imposed under this section shall be determined by the Secretary.


(Pub. L. 103–66, title I, § 1401, Aug. 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 331.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Agricultural Reconciliation Act of 1993 and as part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, and not as part of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 which comprises this part.


