§ 760aa–1. Gifts to system and particular national fish hatcheries(a) Authorization of gifts, devises, and bequests for systemIn furtherance of the purposes of this chapter, the Secretary of the Interior may accept any gifts, devises, or bequests of real and personal property, or proceeds therefrom, or interests therein, for the benefit of the National Fish Hatchery System. Such acceptance may be subject to the terms of any restrictive or affirmative covenant, or condition of servitude, if such terms are deemed by the Secretary to be in accordance with law and compatible with the purpose for which acceptance is sought.


(b) Use of gifts, devises, and bequests(1) In generalAny gifts and bequests of money and proceeds from the sales of other property received as gifts or bequests pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited in a separate account in the Treasury and may be expended without further appropriation by the Secretary for the benefit of the System programs administered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.


(2) Gifts, devises, and bequests for particular facilities(A) DisbursalAny gift, devise, or bequest made for the benefit of a facility of the System shall be disbursed only for the benefit of that facility and without further appropriations.


(B) MatchingSubject to the availability of appropriations and the requirements of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661 et seq.) and other applicable law, the Secretary may provide funds to match gifts, devises, and bequests made for the benefit of a facility of the System. With respect to each gift, devise, or bequest, the amount of Federal funds may not exceed the amount (or, in the case of property or in-kind services, the fair market value) of the gift, devise, or bequest.




(Pub. L. 109–360, § 3, Oct. 16, 2006, 120 Stat. 2059.)


References in TextThe Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(B), is act Mar. 10, 1934, ch. 55, 48 Stat. 401, as amended, which is classified generally to sections 661 to 666c of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 661 of this title and Tables.


