§ 56. Chief Acquisition Officer(a) In General.—There shall be in the Coast Guard a Chief Acquisition Officer selected by the Commandant who shall be a Rear Admiral or civilian from the Senior Executive Service (career reserved) and who meets the qualifications set forth under subsection (b). The Chief Acquisition Officer shall serve at the Assistant Commandant level and have acquisition management as that individual’s primary duty.

(b) Qualifications.—(1) The Chief Acquisition Officer and any flag officer serving in the Acquisition Directorate shall be an acquisition professional with a Level III acquisition management certification and must have at least 10 years experience in an acquisition position, of which at least 4 years were spent as—(A) the program executive officer;

(B) the program manager of a Level 1 or Level 2 acquisition project or program;

(C) the deputy program manager of a Level 1 or Level 2 acquisition;

(D) the project manager of a Level 1 or Level 2 acquisition; or

(E) any other acquisition position of significant responsibility in which the primary duties are supervisory or management duties.


(2) The Commandant shall periodically publish a list of the positions designated under paragraph (1).

(3) In this subsection each of the terms “Level 1 acquisition” and “Level 2 acquisition” has the meaning that term has in chapter 15 of this title.


(c) Functions of the Chief Acquisition Officer.—The functions of the Chief Acquisition Officer include—(1) monitoring the performance of acquisition projects and programs on the basis of applicable performance measurements and advising the Commandant, through the chain of command, regarding the appropriate business strategy to achieve the missions of the Coast Guard;

(2) maximizing the use of full and open competition at the prime contract and subcontract levels in the acquisition of property, capabilities, assets, and services by the Coast Guard by establishing policies, procedures, and practices that ensure that the Coast Guard receives a sufficient number of sealed bids or competitive proposals from responsible sources to fulfill the Government’s requirements, including performance and delivery schedules, at the lowest cost or best value considering the nature of the property, capability, asset, or service procured;

(3) making acquisition decisions in concurrence with the technical authority, or technical authorities, of the Coast Guard, as designated by the Commandant, consistent with all other applicable laws and decisions establishing procedures within the Coast Guard;

(4) ensuring the use of detailed performance specifications in instances in which performance-based contracting is used;

(5) managing the direction of acquisition policy for the Coast Guard, including implementation of the unique acquisition policies, regulations, and standards of the Coast Guard;

(6) developing and maintaining an acquisition career management program in the Coast Guard to ensure that there is an adequate acquisition workforce;

(7) assessing the requirements established for Coast Guard personnel regarding knowledge and skill in acquisition resources and management and the adequacy of such requirements for facilitating the achievement of the performance goals established for acquisition management;

(8) developing strategies and specific plans for hiring, training, and professional development; and

(9) reporting to the Commandant, through the chain of command, on the progress made in improving acquisition management capability.


(Added Pub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 401(a), Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 2929.)

Selection DeadlinePub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 401(c), Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 2930, provided that: “As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 15, 2010], but no later than October 1, 2011, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall select a Chief Acquisition Officer under section 56 of title 14, United States Code, as amended by this section.”


Special Rate SupplementsPub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 401(d), Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 2930, as amended by Pub. L. 111–330, § 1(3), Dec. 22, 2010, 124 Stat. 3569, provided that:
“(1) Requirement to establish.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 15, 2010] and in accordance with section 9701.333 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall establish special rate supplements that provide higher pay levels for employees necessary to carry out the amendment made by this section [adding this section].

“(2) Subject to appropriations.—The requirement under paragraph (1) is subject to the availability of appropriations.”




Elevation of Disputes to the Chief Acquisition OfficerPub. L. 111–281, title IV, § 401(e), Oct. 15, 2010, 124 Stat. 2931, provided that: “If, after 90 days following the elevation to the Chief Acquisition Officer of any design or other dispute regarding Level 1 or Level 2 acquisition, the dispute remains unresolved, the Commandant shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a detailed description of the issue and the rationale underlying the decision taken by the Chief Acquisition Officer to resolve the issue.”



