§ 460bbb–8. Streamside protection zones(a) Three hundred foot zonesFor each of the rivers and river segments specified in this subsection, there is hereby established a streamside protection zone in which timber harvesting shall be prohibited except as permitted by section 460bbb–3(a)(7) of this title. Such zone shall extend 300 feet from each bank of the rivers and river segments, or 100 feet from the inner gorge of said rivers and river segments, or within the limit of high and extreme landslide hazards on said rivers and river segments, whichever is greater. The provisions of this subsection shall apply to the following rivers and river segments:(1) Rowdy Creek (from California-Oregon border to NRA boundary).

(2) Shelly Creek (from its headwaters to Patrick Creek).

(3) East Fork Patrick Creek (from its headwaters to Patrick Creek).

(4) West Fork Patrick Creek (from its headwaters to Patrick Creek).

(5) Little Jones Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(6) Patrick Creek (from the confluence of the East and West forks of Patrick Creek to the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(7) Monkey Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(8) Hardscrabble Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(9) Quartz Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(10) Jones Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(11) Upper Hurdygurdy Creek (from its headwaters to Dry Lake).

(12) Gordon Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(13) Coon Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(14) Craigs Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(15) Goose Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(16) East Fork of Goose Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with Goose Creek).

(17) Muzzleloader Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with Jones Creek).

(18) Canthook Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(19) Rock Creek (from the NRA boundary to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(20) Blackhawk Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).


(b) One-quarter mile zonesFor each of the rivers and river segments specified in this subsection there is established a streamside protection zone in which timber harvesting shall be prohibited except as permitted in section 460bbb–3(a)(7) of this title. Such zone shall extend on the average of one-quarter mile on either side of said rivers and river segments, or 100 feet from the inner gorge of said rivers and river segments, or within the limit of high and extreme landslide hazards on said rivers and river segments, whichever is greater. The provisions of this subsection shall apply to the following rivers and river segments:(1) Main stem Smith (from the South Fork to the NRA boundary).

(2) Middle Fork Smith (from its headwaters to its confluence with the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(3) Myrtle Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(4) Kelly Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(5) Packsaddle Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(6) Griffin Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(7) Knopti Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(8) North Fork of the Smith River (from the California/Oregon border to its confluence with the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(9) Diamond Creek (from the California/Oregon border to its confluence with the North Fork of the Smith River).

(10) Bear Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with Diamond Creek).

(11) Still Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the North Fork of the Smith River).

(12) North Fork of Diamond Creek (from the California/Oregon border to its confluence with Diamond Creek).

(13) High Plateau Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with Diamond Creek).

(14) Stony Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the North Fork of the Smith River).

(15) Peridotite Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the North Fork of the Smith River).

(16) Siskiyou Fork, Smith River (from its headwaters to the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(17) South Siskiyou Fork of the Smith River (from its headwaters to its confluence with the Siskiyou Fork of the Smith River).

(18) South Fork 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by “of the”. Smith River (from its headwaters to its confluence with the Middle Fork of the Smith River).

(19) Williams Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(20) Eight Mile Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(21) Harrington Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(22) Prescott Fork of the Smith River (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).

(23) Buck Creek (from its headwaters to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River).


(c) Lower Hurdygurdy CreekFor the Lower Hurdygurdy Creek (from Dry Lake to its confluence with the South Fork of the Smith River) there is established a streamside protection zone in which timber harvesting shall be prohibited except as permitted by section 460bbb–3(a)(7) of this title. Such zone shall extend one-eighth mile on either side of said Lower Hurdygurdy Creek.


(d) Other restrictions on timber harvestingThe provisions of this section shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any restrictions on timber harvesting or other activities applicable to the streamside protection zones established by this section under any other applicable provision of this subchapter.


(Pub. L. 101–612, § 11, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3219.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsec. (d), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 101–612, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3209, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 460bbb of this title and Tables.


