“SEC. 5. RELATIONSHIP OF THE AGREEMENT TO UNITED STATES LAW.“(a) United States Statutes To Prevail in Conflict.—No provision of the Agreement, nor the application of any such provision to any person or circumstance, which is in conflict with—“(1) title IV of the Trade and Tariff Act of 1984 [title IV of Pub. L. 98–573, amending this section and enacting provisions set out below], or

“(2) any other statute of the United States,


shall be given effect under the laws of the United States.

“(b) Implementing Regulations.—Regulations that are necessary or appropriate to carry out actions proposed in any statement of proposed administrative action submitted to the Congress under section 102 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2112) in order to implement the Agreement shall be prescribed. Initial regulations to carry out such action shall be issued within one year after the date of the entry into force of the Agreement.

“(c) Changes in Statutes To Implement a Requirement, Amendment, or Recommendation.—“(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2), the provisions of section 3(c) of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2504(c)) shall apply with respect to the Agreement and—“(A) no requirement of, amendment to, or recommendation under the Agreement shall be implemented under United States law, and

“(B) no amendment, repeal, or enactment of a statute of the United States to implement any such requirement, amendment, or recommendation shall enter into force with respect to the United States,


unless there has been compliance with the provisions of section 3(c) of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979.

“(2) The provisions of section 3(c)(4) of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2504(c)(4)) shall apply to any bill implementing any requirement of, amendment to, or recommendation made under, the Agreement that reduces or eliminates any duty imposed on any article provided for in paragraph (4) of Annex 1 of the Agreement only if—“(A) any reduction of such duty provided in such bill—“(i) takes effect after December 31, 1989, and

“(ii) takes effect gradually over the period that begins on January 1, 1990, and ends on December 31, 1994,


“(B) any elimination of such duty provided in such bill does not take effect prior to January 1, 1995, and

“(C) the consultations required under section 3(c)(1) of such Act occur at least ninety days prior to the date on which such bill is submitted to the Congress under section 3(c) of such Act.



“(d) Private Remedies Not Created.—Neither the entry into force of the Agreement with respect to the United States, nor the enactment of this Act, shall be construed as creating any private right of action or remedy for which provision is not explicitly made under this Act or under the laws of the United States.

