§ 824a–4. Seasonal diversity electricity exchange(a) AuthorityThe Secretary may acquire rights-of-way by purchase, including eminent domain, through North Dakota, South Dakota, and Nebraska for transmission facilities for the seasonal diversity exchange of electric power to and from Canada if he determines—(1) after opportunity for public hearing—(A) that the exchange is in the public interest and would further the purposes referred to in section 2611(1) and (2) of this title and that the acquisition of such rights-of-way and the construction and operation of such transmission facilities for such purposes is otherwise in the public interest,

(B) that a permit has been issued in accordance with subsection (b) of this section for such construction, operation, maintenance, and connection of the facilities at the border for the transmission of electric energy between the United States and Canada as is necessary for such exchange of electric power, and

(C) that each affected State has approved the portion of the transmission route located in each State in accordance with applicable State law, or if there is no such applicable State law in such State, the Governor has approved such portion; and


(2) after consultation with the Secretary of the Interior and the heads of other affected Federal agencies, that the Secretary of the Interior and the heads of such,11 So in original. The comma probably should not appear. other agencies concur in writing in the location of such portion of the transmission facilities as crosses Federal land under the jurisdiction of such Secretary or such other Federal agency, as the case may be.


The Secretary shall provide to any State such cooperation and technical assistance as the State may request and as he determines appropriate in the selection of a transmission route. If the transmission route approved by any State does not appear to be feasible and in the public interest, the Secretary shall encourage such State to review such route and to develop a route that is feasible and in the public interest. Any exercise by the Secretary of the power of eminent domain under this section shall be in accordance with other applicable provisions of Federal law. The Secretary shall provide public notice of his intention to acquire any right-of-way before exercising such power of eminent domain with respect to such right-of-way.

(b) PermitNotwithstanding any transfer of functions under the first sentence of section 301(b) of the Department of Energy Organization Act [42 U.S.C. 7151(b)], no permit referred to in subsection (a)(1)(B) may be issued unless the Commission has conducted hearings and made the findings required under section 202(e) of the Federal Power Act [16 U.S.C. 824a(e)] and under the applicable execution order respecting the construction, operation, maintenance, or connection at the borders of the United States of facilities for the transmission of electric energy between the United States and a foreign country. Any finding of the Commission under an applicable executive order referred to in this subsection shall be treated for purposes of judicial review as an order issued under section 202(e) of the Federal Power Act.


(c) Timely acquisition by other meansThe Secretary may not acquire any rights-of-day 22 So in original. Probably should be “rights-of-way”. under this section unless he determines that the holder or holders of a permit referred to in subsection (a)(1)(B) of this section are unable to acquire such rights-of-way under State condemnation authority, or after reasonable opportunity for negotiation, without unreasonably delaying construction, taking into consideration the impact of such delay on completion of the facilities in a timely fashion.


(d) Payments by permittees(1) The property interest acquired by the Secretary under this section (whether by eminent domain or other purchase) shall be transferred by the Secretary to the holder of a permit referred to in subsection (b) of this section if such holder has made payment to the Secretary of the entire costs of the acquisition of such property interest, including administrative costs. The Secretary may accept, and expend, for purposes of such acquisition, amounts from any such person before acquiring a property interest to be transferred to such person under this section.

(2) If no payment is made by a permit holder under paragraph (1), within a reasonable time, the Secretary shall offer such rights-of-way to the original owner for reacquisition at the original price paid by the Secretary. If such original owner refuses to reacquire such property after a reasonable period, the Secretary shall dispose of such property in accordance with applicable provisions of law governing disposal of property of the United States.


(e) Federal law governing Federal landsThis section shall not affect any Federal law governing Federal lands.


(Pub. L. 95–617, title VI, § 602, Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3164.)

Codification
Subsection (f), which required the Secretary to report annually to Congress on actions taken pursuant to this section, terminated, effective May 15, 2000, pursuant to section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66, as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance. See, also, page 90 of House Document No. 103–7.
Section was enacted as part of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, and not as part of the Federal Power Act which generally comprises this chapter.


Definitions
For definitions of terms used in this section, see section 2602 of this title.


