§ 719a. Junior Duck Stamp(a) CompetitionAs part of the Program, the Secretary may annually conduct a competition to—(1) solicit the submission by students at elementary and secondary schools of designs relating to conservation of migratory birds; and

(2) select winning designs from among those submissions for use for licensing and marketing under subsection (b) of this section.


(b) Licensing and marketing of design of Junior Duck StampsAs part of the Program, the Secretary may—(1) license and market winning designs selected in competitions under subsection (a) of this section; and

(2) license and market stamps bearing those designs, which shall be known as Junior Duck Stamps.


(c) Use of proceedsAmounts received under subsection (b) of this section—(1) 11 So in original. Subsec. (c), as amended by Pub. L. 109–166, does not contain a par. (2). shall be available to the Secretary until expended, without further appropriations, solely for—(A) awards, prizes, and scholarships to individuals who submit designs in competitions under subsection (a) of this section, that are—(i) selected in such a competition as winning designs; or

(ii) otherwise determined in such a competition to be superior;


(B) awards and prizes to schools, students, teachers, and other participants to further education activities related to the conservation education goals of the Program;

(C) award ceremonies for winners of national and State Junior Duck Stamp competitions;

(D) travel expenses for winners of national and State Junior Duck Stamp competitions to award ceremonies, if—(i) the event is intended to honor students for winning a national competition; or

(ii) the event is intended to honor students for winning a State competition;


(E) expenses for licensing and marketing under subsection (b) of this section;

(F) expenses for migratory bird reference materials or supplies awarded to schools that participate in the Program; and

(G) expenses for marketing and educational materials developed to promote the Program; 22 So in original.



(Pub. L. 103–340, § 3, Oct. 6, 1994, 108 Stat. 3119; Pub. L. 109–166, § 2, Jan. 10, 2006, 119 Stat. 3576.)

Amendments2006—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 109–166 amended heading and text of subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Amounts received under subsection (b) of this section—
“(1) shall be available to the Secretary until expended, without further appropriations, solely for—
“(A) awards and scholarships to individuals who submit designs in competitions under subsection (a) of this section, that are—
“(i) selected in such a competition as winning designs; or
“(ii) otherwise determined in such a competition to be superior;
“(B) awards to schools and other participants to further education activities related to the conservation education goals of the Program; and
“(C) expenses for licensing and marketing under subsection (b) of this section; and
“(2) may not be used for administrative expenses of the Program.”


