§ 78d–4. Additional duties of Inspector General(a) Suggestion submissions by Commission employees(1) Hotline establishedThe Inspector General of the Commission shall establish and maintain a telephone hotline or other electronic means for the receipt of—(A) suggestions by employees of the Commission for improvements in the work efficiency, effectiveness, and productivity, and the use of the resources, of the Commission; and

(B) allegations by employees of the Commission of waste, abuse, misconduct, or mismanagement within the Commission.


(2) ConfidentialityThe Inspector General shall maintain as confidential—(A) the identity of any individual who provides information by the means established under paragraph (1), unless the individual requests otherwise, in writing; and

(B) at the request of any such individual, any specific information provided by the individual.



(b) Consideration of reportsThe Inspector General shall consider any suggestions or allegations received by the means established under subsection (a)(1), and shall recommend appropriate action in relation to such suggestions or allegations.


(c) RecognitionThe Inspector General may recognize any employee who makes a suggestion under subsection (a)(1) (or by other means) that would or does—(1) increase the work efficiency, effectiveness, or productivity of the Commission; or

(2) reduce waste, abuse, misconduct, or mismanagement within the Commission.


(d) ReportThe Inspector General of the Commission shall submit to Congress an annual report containing a description of—(1) the nature, number, and potential benefits of any suggestions received under subsection (a);

(2) the nature, number, and seriousness of any allegations received under subsection (a);

(3) any recommendations made or actions taken by the Inspector General in response to substantiated allegations received under subsection (a); and

(4) any action the Commission has taken in response to suggestions or allegations received under subsection (a).


(e) FundingThe activities of the Inspector General under this subsection shall be funded by the Securities and Exchange Commission Investor Protection Fund established under section 78u–6 of this title.


(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, § 4D, as added Pub. L. 111–203, title IX, § 966, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1912.)

Effective DateSection effective 1 day after July 21, 2010, except as otherwise provided, see section 4 of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 5301 of Title 12, Banks and Banking.


