§ 410tt–3. Administration(a) In generalThe park shall be administered in accordance with this subchapter and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the national park system, including, but not limited to, sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and sections 461 to 467 of this title. In the case of any conflict between the provisions of this subchapter and such generally applicable provisions of law, the provisions of this subchapter shall govern.


(b) Cooperative agreementsThe Secretary, after consulting with the Salt River Bay National Historical Park and Ecological Preserve at St. Croix, Virgin Islands, Commission (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Commission”) established by section 410tt–4 of this title, is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with the United States Virgin Islands, or any political subdivision thereof, for the management of the park and for other purposes.


(c) General management plan(1) Not later than 3 years after the date funds are made available for this subsection, the Secretary, in consultation with the Commission, and with public involvement, shall develop and submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of Representatives a general management plan for the park. The general management plan shall describe the appropriate protection, management, uses, and development of the park consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.

(2) The general management plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following:(A) Plans for implementation of a continuing program of interpretation and visitor education about the resources and values of the park.

(B) Proposals for visitor use facilities to be developed for the park.

(C) Plans for management of the natural and cultural resources of the park, with particular emphasis on the preservation of both the cultural and natural resources and long-term scientific study of terrestrial, marine, and archeological resources, giving high priority to the enforcement of the provisions of the Archeological 11 So in original. Probably should be “Archaeological”. Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa et seq.) and the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) within the park. The natural and cultural resources management plans shall be prepared in consultation with the Virgin Islands Division of Archeology and Historic Preservation.

(D) Proposals for assessing the potential operation and supply of park concessions by qualified Virgin Islands-owned businesses.

(E) Plans for the training of personnel in accordance with subsection (e) 22 So in original. Probably should be subsection “(d)”. of this section.



(d) Training assistanceDuring the 10-year period beginning on February 24, 1992, the Secretary shall, subject to appropriations, provide the funds for the employees of the Government of the United States Virgin Islands directly engaged in the joint management of the park and shall implement, in consultation with the Government of the United States Virgin Islands, a program under which Virgin Islands citizens may be trained in all phases of park operations and management: Provided, however, That in no event shall the Secretary provide more than 50 percent of the funding for such purposes. A primary objective of the program shall be to train employees in the skills necessary for operating and managing a Virgin Islands Territorial Park System.


(Pub. L. 102–247, title I, § 105, Feb. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 34; Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(13), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4584.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a) after “the provisions of” in two places and in subsec. (b), was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title I of Pub. L. 102–247, known as the Salt River Bay National Historical Park and Ecological Preserve at St. Croix, Virgin Islands, Act of 1992, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
The Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(C), is Pub. L. 96–95, Oct. 31, 1979, 93 Stat. 721, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 1B (§ 470aa et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 470aa of this title and Tables.
The National Historic Preservation Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(C), is Pub. L. 89–665, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 470 et seq.) of chapter 1A of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 470(a) of this title and Tables.

Amendments1994—Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 103–437 substituted “Natural Resources” for “Interior and Insular Affairs” after “Committee on”.


