§ 230a. Acquisition of property(a) In general(1) Barataria Preserve Unit(A) In generalThe Secretary may acquire any land, water, and interests in land and water within the Barataria Preserve Unit by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, transfer from any other Federal agency, or exchange.


(B) Limitations(i) In generalAny non-Federal land depicted on the map described in section 230 of this title as “Lands Proposed for Addition” may be acquired by the Secretary only with the consent of the owner of the land.


(ii) Boundary adjustmentOn the date on which the Secretary acquires a parcel of land described in clause (i), the boundary of the Barataria Preserve Unit shall be adjusted to reflect the acquisition.


(iii) EasementsTo ensure adequate hurricane protection of the communities located in the area, any land identified on the map described in section 230 of this title that is acquired or transferred shall be subject to any easements that have been agreed to by the Secretary and the Secretary of the Army.



(C) Transfer of administration jurisdictionEffective on March 30, 2009, administrative jurisdiction over any Federal land within the areas depicted on the map described in section 230 of this title as “Lands Proposed for Addition” is transferred, without consideration, to the administrative jurisdiction of the National Park Service, to be administered as part of the Barataria Preserve Unit.



(2) French QuarterThe Secretary may acquire by any of the methods referred to in paragraph (1)(A) such lands and interests therein, including leasehold interests, as he may designate in the French Quarter of New Orleans for development and operation as an interpretive and administrative facility.


(3) Acquisition of State landLand, water, and interests in land and water owned by the State of Louisiana or any political subdivision thereof may be acquired only by donation.


(4) Acquisition of oil and gas rightsIn acquiring property pursuant to this part, the Secretary may not acquire right to oil and gas without the consent of the owner, but the exercise of such rights shall be subject to such regulations as the Secretary may promulgate in furtherance of the purposes of this part.



(b) Resource protectionWith respect to the land, water, and interests in land and water of the Barataria Preserve Unit, the Secretary shall preserve and protect—(1) fresh water drainage patterns;

(2) vegetative cover;

(3) the integrity of ecological and biological systems; and

(4) water and air quality.


(c) Adjacent landWith the consent of the owner and the parish governing authority, the Secretary may—(1) acquire land, water, and interests in land and water, by any of the methods referred to in subsection (a)(1)(A) (including use of appropriations from the Land and Water Conservation Fund); and

(2) revise the boundaries of the Barataria Preserve Unit to include adjacent land and water.


(d) Acadian villages and townsThe Secretary is authorized to acquire lands or interests in lands by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds or exchange, not to exceed approximately 20 acres, in Acadian villages and towns. Any lands so acquired shall be developed, maintained and operated as part of the Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve.


(Pub. L. 95–625, title IX, § 902, Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3535; Pub. L. 96–87, title IV, § 401(q)(1), Oct. 12, 1979, 93 Stat. 666; Pub. L. 100–250, § 1(b), Feb. 16, 1988, 102 Stat. 16; Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, § 7105(b), (f)(2)(B), Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1191, 1193.)

Amendments2009—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 111–11, § 7105(b)(1), inserted heading, inserted par. (1) designation and heading and substituted text of par. (1) for “Within the Barataria Marsh Unit the Secretary is authorized to acquire not to exceed eight thousand six hundred acres of lands, waters, and interests therein (hereinafter referred to as the ‘core area’), as depicted on the map referred to in section 230 of this title, by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.”, inserted par. (2) designation and heading and substituted “The Secretary may acquire by any of the methods referred to in paragraph (1)(A)” for “The Secretary may also acquire by any of the foregoing methods”, inserted par. (3) designation and heading and substituted “Land, water, and interests in land and water” for “Lands, waters, and interests therein”, and inserted par. (4) designation and heading.
Subsecs. (b), (c). Pub. L. 111–11, § 7105(b)(2), added subsecs. (b) and (c) and struck out former subsecs. (b) and (c) which related to guidelines or criteria applicable to the use and development of properties within a park protection zone, and preservation and protection of certain values, respectively.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 111–11, § 7105(b)(3), (f)(2)(B), redesignated subsec. (g) as (d) and substituted “Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve” for “Jean Lafitte National Historical Park”.
Pub. L. 111–11, § 7105(b)(2), struck out subsec. (d). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Where the State or local units of government deem it appropriate, they may cede to the Secretary, and the Secretary is authorized to accept, the power and authority to confect and enforce a program or set of rules pursuant to the guidelines established under subsection (b) of this section for the purpose of protecting the values described in subsection (c) of this section.”
Subsecs. (e), (f). Pub. L. 111–11, § 7105(b)(2), struck out subsecs. (e) and (f) which read as follows:
“(e) The Secretary, upon the failure of the State or local units of government to enact rules pursuant to subsection (b) of this section or enforce such rules so as to protect the values enumerated in subsection (c) of this section, may acquire such lands, servitudes, or interests in lands within the park protection zone as he deems necessary to protect the values enumerated in subsection (c) of this section.
“(f) The Secretary may revise the boundaries of the park protection zone, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to include or exclude properties, but only with the consent of Jefferson Parish.”
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 111–11, § 7105(b)(3), redesignated subsec. (g) as (d).
1988—Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 100–250 added subsec. (g).
1979—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 96–87 substituted “eight thousand six hundred acres” for “eight thousand acres”.


“Secretary” Defined
Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior, see section 2 of Pub. L. 95–625, set out as a note under section 2503 of this title.


