§ 1a–1. National Park System: administration; declaration of findings and purpose
Congress declares that the national park system, which began with establishment of Yellowstone National Park in 1872, has since grown to include superlative natural, historic, and recreation areas in every major region of the United States, its territories and island possessions; that these areas, though distinct in character, are united through their inter-related purposes and resources into one national park system as cumulative expressions of a single national heritage; that, individually and collectively, these areas derive increased national dignity and recognition of their superb environmental quality through their inclusion jointly with each other in one national park system preserved and managed for the benefit and inspiration of all the people of the United States; and that it is the purpose of this Act to include all such areas in the System and to clarify the authorities applicable to the system. Congress further reaffirms, declares, and di­rects that the promotion and regulation of the various areas of the National Park System, as defined in section 1c of this title, shall be consistent with and founded in the purpose established by section 1 of this title, to the common benefit of all the people of the United States. The authorization of activities shall be construed and the protection, management, and administration of these areas shall be conducted in light of the high public value and integrity of the National Park System and shall not be exercised in derogation of the values and purposes for which these various areas have been established, except as may have been or shall be directly and specifically provided by Congress.
(Pub. L. 91–383, § 1, Aug. 18, 1970, 84 Stat. 825; Pub. L. 95–250, title I, § 101(b), Mar. 27, 1978, 92 Stat. 166.)


References in TextThis Act, referred to in text, means Pub. L. 91–383, Aug. 18, 1970, 84 Stat. 825, as amended, known as the “National Park System General Authorities Act”. As originally enacted, Pub. L. 91–383 contained sections 1 to 4, the first 3 of which enacted sections 1a–1 and 1a–2 and amended sections 1b and 1c of this title. Pub. L. 94–458 amended Pub. L. 91–383 by adding sections 5 to 12, which enacted sections 1a–3 to 1a–7, amended sections 17j, 460n–5, 463, 470a, and 559, and repealed sections 10, 10a, 17b–1, and 415 of this title. Pub. L. 103–322 amended Pub. L. 91–383 by adding section 13, which enacted section 1a–7a of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1970 Amendment note set out under section 1 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1978—Pub. L. 95–250 provided that the promotion and regulation of the various areas of the National Park System, as defined in section 1c of this title, be consistent with and founded in the purpose established by section 1 of this title, to the common benefit of all the people of the United States, and that the authorization of activities be construed and the protection, management, and administration of these areas be conducted in light of the high public value and integrity of the National Park System and not be exercised in derogation of the values and purposes for which these various areas have been established, except as may have been or shall be directly and specifically provided by Congress.

Special Events at National MallPub. L. 108–108, title I, § 145, Nov. 10, 2003, 117 Stat. 1280, provided that: “None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other Act, hereafter enacted, may be used to permit the use of the National Mall for a special event, unless the permit expressly prohibits the erection, placement, or use of structures and signs bearing commercial advertising. The Secretary may allow for recognition of sponsors of special events: Provided, That the size and form of the recognition shall be consistent with the special nature and sanctity of the Mall and any lettering or design identifying the sponsor shall be no larger than one-third the size of the lettering or design identifying the special event. In approving special events, the Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that public use of, and access to the Mall is not restricted. For purposes of this section, the term ‘special event’ shall have the meaning given to it by section 7.96(g)(1)(ii) of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations.”


Study of Air Traffic Over Grand CanyonPub. L. 102–581, title I, § 134, Oct. 31, 1992, 106 Stat. 4887, provided that:
“(a) Study.—The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, in consultation with the Director of the National Park Service, the State of Arizona, the State of Nevada, the Clark County Department of Aviation, affected Indian tribes, and the general public, shall conduct a study on increased air traffic over Grand Canyon National Park.

“(b) Report.—The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a). The report shall include the following:“(1) A report on the increase in air traffic over Grand Canyon National Park since 1987.

“(2) A forecast of the increase in air traffic over Grand Canyon National Park through 2010.

“(3) A report on the carrying capacity of the airspace over Grand Canyon National Park to ensure aviation safety and to meet the requirements established by section 3 of the Act of August 18, 1987 (Public Law 100–91; 101 Stat. 676) [set out below], including the substantial restoration of natural quiet at the Park.

“(4) A plan of action to manage increased air traffic over Grand Canyon National Park to ensure aviation safety and to meet the requirements established by such section 3 of the Act of August 18, 1987, including any measures to encourage or require the use of quiet aircraft technology by commercial air tour operators.”





Removal of Feral Burros and Horses From Death Valley National MonumentPub. L. 102–381, title I, Oct. 5, 1992, 106 Stat. 1384, provided in part: “That in fiscal year 1993 and thereafter, the National Park Service may use helicopters and motorized equipment at Death Valley National Monument for removal of feral burros and horses”.


Study To Determine Appropriate Minimum Altitude for Aircraft Flying Over National Park System UnitsPub. L. 100–91, Aug. 18, 1987, 101 Stat. 674, as amended by Pub. L. 106–510, § 3(a)(2), (b)(2), Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2363, provided that:
“SECTION 1. STUDY OF PARK OVERFLIGHTS.“(a) Study by Park Service.—The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Secretary’), acting through the Director of the National Park Service, shall conduct a study to determine the proper minimum altitude which should be maintained by aircraft when flying over units of the National Park System. The Secretary of Transportation, acting through the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Administrator’), shall provide technical assistance to the Secretary in carrying out the study.

“(b) General Requirements of Study.—The study shall identify any problems associated with overflight by aircraft of units of the National Park System and shall provide information regarding the types of overflight which may be impacting on park unit resources. The study shall distinguish between the impacts caused by sightseeing aircraft, military aircraft, commercial aviation, general aviation, and other forms of aircraft which affect such units. The study shall identify those park system units, and portions thereof, in which the most serious adverse impacts from aircraft overflights exist.

“(c) Specific Requirements.—The study under this section shall include research at the following units of the National Park System: Cumberland Island National Seashore, Yosemite National Park, Hawaiʻi Volcanoes National Park, Haleakala̅ National Park, Glacier National Park, and Mount Rushmore National Memorial, and at no less than four additional units of the National Park System, excluding all National Park System units in the State of Alaska. The research at each such unit shall provide information and an evaluation regarding each of the following:“(1) the impacts of aircraft noise on the safety of the park system users, including hikers, rock-climbers, and boaters;

“(2) the impairment of visitor enjoyment associated with flights over such units of the National Park System;

“(3) other injurious effects of overflights on the natural, historical, and cultural resources for which such units were established; and

“(4) the values associated with aircraft flights over such units of the National Park System in terms of visitor enjoyment, the protection of persons or property, search and rescue operations and firefighting.


Such research shall evaluate the impact of overflights by both fixed-wing aircraft and helicopters. The research shall include an evaluation of the differences in noise levels within such units of the National Park System which are associated with flight by commonly used aircraft at different altitudes. The research shall apply only to overflights and shall not apply to landing fields within, or adjacent to, such units.

“(d) Report to Congress.—The Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress within 3 years after the enactment of this Act [Aug. 18, 1987] containing the results of the study carried out under this section. Such report shall also contain recommendations for legislative and regulatory action which could be taken regarding the information gathered pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (c). Before submission to the Congress, the Secretary shall provide a draft of the report and recommendations to the Administrator for review. The Administrator shall review such report and recommendations and notify the Secretary of any adverse effects which the implementation of such recommendations would have on the safety of aircraft operations. The Administrator shall consult with the Secretary to resolve issues relating to such adverse effects. The final report shall include a finding by the Administrator that implementation of the recommendations of the Secretary will not have adverse effects on the safety of aircraft operations, or if the Administrator is unable to make such finding, a statement by the Administrator of the reasons he believes the Secretary’s recommendations will have an adverse effect on the safety of aircraft operations.

“(e) FAA Review of Rules.—The Administrator shall review current rules and regulations pertaining to flights of aircraft over units of the National Park System at which research is conducted under subsection (c) and over any other such units at which such a review is determined necessary by the Administrator or is requested by the Secretary. In the review under this subsection, the Administrator shall determine whether changes are needed in such rules and regulations on the basis of aviation safety. Not later than 180 days after the identification of the units of the National Park System for which research is to be conducted under subsection (c), the Administrator shall submit a report to Congress containing the results of the review along with recommendations for legislative and regulatory action which are needed to implement any such changes.

“(f) Authorization.—There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the studies and review under this section.

