§ 80a–30. Accounts and records(a) Maintenance of records(1) In generalEach registered investment company, and each underwriter, broker, dealer, or investment adviser that is a majority-owned subsidiary of such a company, shall maintain and preserve such records (as defined in section 78c(a)(37) of this title) for such period or periods as the Commission, by rules and regulations, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. Each investment adviser that is not a majority-owned subsidiary of, and each depositor of any registered investment company, and each principal underwriter for any registered investment company other than a closed-end company, shall maintain and preserve for such period or periods as the Commission shall prescribe by rules and regulations, such records as are necessary or appropriate to record such person’s transactions with such registered company. Each person having custody or use of the securities, deposits, or credits of a registered investment company shall maintain and preserve all records that relate to the custody or use by such person of the securities, deposits, or credits of the registered investment company for such period or periods as the Commission, by rule or regulation, may prescribe, as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.


(2) Minimizing compliance burdenIn exercising its authority under this subsection, the Commission shall take such steps as it deems necessary or appropriate, consistent with the public interest and for the protection of investors, to avoid unnecessary recordkeeping by, and minimize the compliance burden on, persons required to maintain records under this subsection (hereafter in this section referred to as “subject persons”). Such steps shall include considering, and requesting public comment on—(A) feasible alternatives that minimize the recordkeeping burdens on subject persons;

(B) the necessity of such records in view of the public benefits derived from the independent scrutiny of such records through Commission examination;

(C) the costs associated with maintaining the information that would be required to be reflected in such records; and

(D) the effects that a proposed recordkeeping requirement would have on internal compliance policies and procedures.



(b) Examinations of records(1) In generalAll records required to be maintained and preserved in accordance with subsection (a) of this section shall be subject at any time and from time to time to such reasonable periodic, special, and other examinations by the Commission, or any member or representative thereof, as the Commission may prescribe.


(2) AvailabilityFor purposes of examinations referred to in paragraph (1), any subject person shall make available to the Commission or its representatives any copies or extracts from such records as may be prepared without undue effort, expense, or delay as the Commission or its representatives may reasonably request.


(3) Commission actionThe Commission shall exercise its authority under this subsection with due regard for the benefits of internal compliance policies and procedures and the effective implementation and operation thereof.


(4) Records of persons with custody or use(A) In generalRecords of persons having custody or use of the securities, deposits, or credits of a registered investment company that relate to such custody or use, are subject at any time, or from time to time, to such reasonable periodic, special, or other examinations and other information and document requests by representatives of the Commission, as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.


(B) Certain persons subject to other regulationAny person that is subject to regulation and examination by a Federal financial institution regulatory agency (as such term is defined under section 212(c)(2) of title 18) may satisfy any examination request, information request, or document request described under subparagraph (A), by providing to the Commission a detailed listing, in writing, of the securities, deposits, or credits of the registered investment company within the custody or use of such person.




(c) Regulatory authorityThe Commission may, in the public interest or for the protection of investors, issue rules and regulations providing for a reasonable degree of uniformity in the accounting policies and principles to be followed by registered investment companies in maintaining their accounting records and in preparing financial statements required pursuant to this subchapter.


(d) Exemption authorityThe Commission, upon application made by any registered investment company, may by order exempt a specific transaction or transactions from the provisions of any rule or regulation made pursuant to subsection (e) of this section, if the Commission finds that such rule or regulation should not reasonably be applied to such transaction.


(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, § 31, 54 Stat. 838; Pub. L. 104–290, title II, § 207, Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3430; Pub. L. 105–353, title III, § 301(c)(6), Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3237; Pub. L. 111–203, title IX, §§ 929I(b), 929Q(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1858, 1865; Pub. L. 111–257, § 1(b), Oct. 5, 2010, 124 Stat. 2646.)

Amendments2010—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 111–203, § 929Q(a)(1), inserted at end “Each person having custody or use of the securities, deposits, or credits of a registered investment company shall maintain and preserve all records that relate to the custody or use by such person of the securities, deposits, or credits of the registered investment company for such period or periods as the Commission, by rule or regulation, may prescribe, as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.”
Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 111–203, § 929Q(a)(2), added par. (4).
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 111–257 redesignated subsec. (d) as (c) and struck out former subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text of subsec. (c) read as follows: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission shall not be compelled to disclose any records or information provided to the Commission under this section, or records or information based upon or derived from such records or information, if such records or information have been obtained by the Commission for use in furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter, including surveillance, risk assessments, or other regulatory and oversight activities. Nothing in this subsection authorizes the Commission to withhold information from the Congress or prevent the Commission from complying with a request for information from any other Federal department or agency requesting the information for purposes within the scope of jurisdiction of that department or agency, or complying with an order of a court of the United States in an action brought by the United States or the Commission. For purposes of section 552 of title 5, this section shall be considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 552. Collection of information pursuant to this section shall be an administrative action involving an agency against specific individuals or agencies pursuant to section 3518(c)(1) of title 44.”
Pub. L. 111–203, § 929I(b)(1), added subsec. (c) and struck out former subsec. (c). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission shall not be compelled to disclose any internal compliance or audit records, or information contained therein, provided to the Commission under this section. Nothing in this subsection shall authorize the Commission to withhold information from the Congress or prevent the Commission from complying with a request for information from any other Federal department or agency requesting the information for purposes within the scope of the jurisdiction of that department or agency, or complying with an order of a court of the United States in an action brought by the United States or the Commission. For purposes of section 552 of title 5, this section shall be considered a statute described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 552.”
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 111–257, § 1(b)(2), redesignated subsec. (e) as (d). Former subsec. (d) redesignated (c).
Pub. L. 111–203, § 929I(b)(2), (3), redesignated subsec. (e) as (d) and struck out former subsec. (d) which defined “internal compliance policies and procedures” and “internal compliance and audit record” for purposes of this section.
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 111–257, § 1(b)(2), redesignated subsec. (e) as (d).
Pub. L. 111–203, § 929I(b)(3), redesignated subsec. (f) as (e). Former subsec. (e) redesignated (d).
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 111–203, § 929I(b)(3), redesignated subsec. (f) as (e).
1998—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 105–353 substituted “subsection (e)” for “subsection (c)”.
1996—Subsecs. (a), (b). Pub. L. 104–290, § 207(1), added subsecs. (a) and (b) and struck out former subsecs. (a) and (b) which read as follows:
“(a) Every registered investment company, and every underwriter, broker, dealer, or investment adviser which is a majority-owned subsidiary of such a company, shall maintain and preserve for such period or periods as the Commission may prescribe by rules and regulations, such accounts, books, and other documents as constitute the record forming the basis for financial statements required to be filed pursuant to section 80a–29 of this title, and of the auditor’s certificates relating thereto. Every investment adviser not a majority-owned subsidiary of, and every depositor of any registered investment company, and every principal underwriter for any registered investment company other than a closed-end company, shall maintain and preserve for such period or periods as the Commission shall prescribe by rules and regulations, such accounts, books, and other documents as are necessary or appropriate to record such person’s transactions with such registered company.
“(b) All accounts, books, and other records, required to be maintained and preserved by any person pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, shall be subject at any time and from time to time to such reasonable periodic, special, and other examinations by the Commission, or any member or representative thereof, as the Commission may prescribe. Any such person shall furnish to the Commission, within such reasonable time as the Commission may prescribe, copies of or extracts from such rec­ords which may be prepared without undue effort, expense, or delay, as the Commission may by order require.”
Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 104–290, § 207(3), added subsecs. (c) and (d). Former subsecs. (c) and (d) redesignated (e) and (f), respectively.
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 104–290, § 207(2), (4), redesignated subsec. (c) as (e) and inserted heading.
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 104–290, § 207(2), (5), redesignated subsec. (d) as (f) and inserted heading.

Effective Date of 2010 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective 1 day after July 21, 2010, except as otherwise provided, see section 4 of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as an Effective Date note under section 5301 of Title 12, Banks and Banking.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions of Securities and Exchange Commission, with certain exceptions, to Chairman of such Commission, see Reorg. Plan No. 10 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3175, 64 Stat. 1265, set out under section 78d of this title.


