§ 410rr–7. Glorieta Unit of Pecos National Historical Park(a) EstablishmentIn order to preserve and interpret the Battle of Glorieta for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations, there is hereby established the Glorieta Unit of the Pecos National Historical Park (hereafter in this section referred to as the “Glorieta Unit”). The Glorieta Unit shall be comprised of approximately 682 acres as generally depicted on the maps entitled “Glorieta Unit—Pecos National Historical Park”, numbered 430–80,031, and dated July 1990. The boundary of Pecos National Historical Park, established by this subchapter, is hereby modified to include the Glorieta Unit.


(b) AdministrationThe Secretary shall administer the Glorieta Unit to preserve and interpret the Battle of Glorieta for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations, in accordance with the provisions of this section, applicable provisions of this subchapter, and provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and sections 461 to 467 of this title.


(c) AcquisitionThe Secretary is authorized to acquire lands, waters, and interests therein within the boundaries of the Glorieta Unit by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange. Lands may not be acquired for purposes of the Glorieta Unit without the consent of the owner thereof unless the Secretary determines that, in his judgment, the property is subject to, or threatened with, uses which are having, or would have, an adverse impact on the Glorieta Unit or on the management of the Glorieta Unit.


(d) TransferLands identified on the maps referred to in subsection (a) of this section as being within unit number 26 in the “Historic Zone” are hereby transferred from the administration of the Secretary of Agriculture to the administration of the Secretary of the Interior, to be managed in accordance with the provisions of this section.


(e) Management planThe Secretary shall incorporate management direction for the Glorieta Unit into the general management plan for the Pecos National Historical Park, including the identification of routes of travel associated with the Battle of Glorieta.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.


(Pub. L. 101–536, § 3, Nov. 8, 1990, 104 Stat. 2368.)


References in TextThis section, referred to in subsecs. (a), (b), (d), and (f), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 101–536, Nov. 8, 1990, 104 Stat. 2368, known as the Pecos National Historical Park Expansion Act of 1990, which enacted this section and provisions set out as notes under this section and section 410rr of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1990 Amendment note set out under section 410rr of this title and Tables.

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Pecos National Historical Park Expansion Act of 1990, and not as part of title II of Pub. L. 101–313 which comprises this subchapter.

Findings and PurposePub. L. 101–536, § 2, Nov. 8, 1990, 104 Stat. 2368, provided that:
“(a) Findings.—The Congress makes the following findings:“(1) the Civil War battle of Glorieta Pass, New Mexico, fought on March 26–28, 1862, was a decisive battle of the Civil War in the Far West;

“(2) the battle was significant because the Confederate defeat at Glorieta Pass resulted in the collapse of the Confederacy’s plan to capture the riches and support of the West, thus largely ending the Civil War in the West; and

“(3) the campsite and headquarters of the Union forces during the Battle of Glorieta are currently within the boundary of Pecos National Historical Park.


“(b) Purpose.—The purpose of this Act [enacting this section and provisions set out as a note under section 410rr of this title] is to preserve and interpret the Battle of Glorieta and to enhance visitor understanding of the Civil War and the Far West by establishing a new unit of Pecos National Historical Park.”





