§ 1823. Horse shows and exhibitions(a) Disqualification of horsesThe management of any horse show or horse exhibition shall disqualify any horse from being shown or exhibited (1) which is sore or (2) if the management has been notified by a person appointed in accordance with regulations under subsection (c) of this section or by the Secretary that the horse is sore.


(b) Prohibited activitiesThe management of any horse sale or auction shall prohibit the sale or auction or exhibition for the purpose of sale of any horse (1) which is sore or (2) if the management has been notified by a person appointed in accordance with regulations under subsection (c) of this section or by the Secretary that the horse is sore.


(c) Appointment of inspectors; manner of inspectionsThe Secretary shall prescribe by regulation requirements for the appointment by the management of any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction of persons qualified to detect and diagnose a horse which is sore or to otherwise inspect horses for the purposes of enforcing this chapter. Such requirements shall prohibit the appointment of persons who, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, have been disqualified by the Secretary to make such detection, diagnosis, or inspection. Appointment of a person in accordance with the requirements prescribed under this subsection shall not be construed as authorizing such person to conduct inspections in a manner other than that prescribed for inspections by the Secretary (or the Secretary’s representative) under subsection (e) of this section.


(d) Recordkeeping and reporting requirements; availability of recordsThe management of a horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction shall establish and maintain such records, make such reports, and provide such information as the Secretary may by regulation reasonably require for the purposes of implementing this chapter or to determine compliance with this chapter. Upon request of an officer or employee duly designated by the Secretary, such management shall permit entry at all reasonable times for the inspection and copying (on or off the premises) of records required to be maintained under this subsection.


(e) Inspection by Secretary or duly appointed representativeFor purposes of enforcement of this chapter (including any regulation promulgated under this chapter) the Secretary, or any representative of the Secretary duly designated by the Secretary, may inspect any horse show, horse exhibition, or horse sale or auction or any horse at any such show, exhibition, sale, or auction. Such an inspection may only be made upon presenting appropriate credentials. Each such inspection shall be commenced and completed with reasonable promptness and shall be conducted within reasonable limits and in a reasonable manner. An inspection under this subsection shall extend to all things (including rec­ords) bearing on whether the requirements of this chapter have been complied with.


(Pub. L. 91–540, § 4, Dec. 9, 1970, 84 Stat. 1405; Pub. L. 94–360, § 5, July 13, 1976, 90 Stat. 916.)

Amendments1976—Pub. L. 94–360 substituted provisions relating to the inspection and disqualification of horses participating in horse shows and exhibitions, the issuance of regulations by the Secretary, and the maintenance of records by horse show management, for provisions prohibiting as constituting unlawful acts the exhibition of sored horses, the transportation in commerce for purposes of exhibition of any horse that had been sored, and the conducting of any show or exhibition in which sored horses appear. Provisions now covering such unlawful acts are set out as section 1824 of this title.


