“SEC. 4003. DEFINITIONS“For purposes of this division:“(1) The term ‘major defense contract or subcontract’ means—“(A) any defense contract in an amount not less than $5,000,000 (without regard to the date on which the contract was awarded); and

“(B) any subcontract which—“(i) is entered into in connection with a contract (without regard to the effective date of the subcontract); and

“(ii) involves not less than $500,000.



“(2) The term ‘Economic Adjustment Committee’ or ‘Committee’ means the Economic Adjustment Committee established in Executive Order 12049 (10 U.S.C. 111 note).

“(3) The term ‘defense facility’ means any private or government facility producing goods or services pursuant to a defense contract.

“(4) The term ‘military installation’ means a base, camp, post, station, yard, center, or homeport facility for any ship in the United States, or any other facility under the jurisdiction of a military department located in the United States.

“(5) The term ‘substantially and seriously affected’ means—“(A) when such term is used in conjunction with the term ‘community’, a community—“(i) which has within its administrative and political jurisdiction one or more military installations or defense facilities or which is economically affected by proximity to a military installation or defense facility;

“(ii) in which the actual or threatened curtailment, completion, elimination, or realignment of a defense contract results in a workforce reduction of—     “(I) 2,500 or more employee positions, in the case of a Metropolitan Statistical Area or similar area (as defined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget);

     “(II) 1,000 or more employee positions, in the case of a labor market area outside of a Metropolitan Statistical Area; or

     “(III) one percent of the total number of civilian jobs in that area; and


“(iii) which establishes, by evidence, that any workforce reduction referred to in clause (ii) occurred as a direct result of changes in Department of Defense requirements or programs;


“(B) when such term is used in conjunction with the term ‘businesses’ any business which—“(i) holds a major defense contract or subcontract (or held such contract or subcontract before a reduction in the defense budget);

“(ii) experiences a reduction, or the threat of a reduction, of—     “(I) 25 percent or more in sales or production; or

     “(II) 80 percent or more of the workforce of such business in any division of such business or at any plant or other facility of such business; and


“(iii) establishes, by evidence, that the reductions referred to in clause (ii) occurred as a direct result of a reduction in the defense budget; and


“(C) when such term is used in conjunction with the term ‘group of workers’, any group of 100 or more workers at a defense facility who are (or who are threatened to be), eligible to participate in the defense conversion adjustment program under section 325 of the Job Training Partnership Act [29 U.S.C. 1662d] (as added by section 4202 of this division), as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [Aug. 7, 1998].


