§ 78pp. Investor Advisory Committee(a) Establishment and purpose(1) EstablishmentThere is established within the Commission the Investor Advisory Committee (referred to in this section as the “Committee”).


(2) PurposeThe Committee shall—(A) advise and consult with the Commission on—(i) regulatory priorities of the Commission;

(ii) issues relating to the regulation of securities products, trading strategies, and fee structures, and the effectiveness of disclosure;

(iii) initiatives to protect investor interest; and

(iv) initiatives to promote investor confidence and the integrity of the securities marketplace; and


(B) submit to the Commission such findings and recommendations as the Committee determines are appropriate, including recommendations for proposed legislative changes.



(b) Membership(1) In generalThe members of the Committee shall be—(A) the Investor Advocate;

(B) a representative of State securities commissions;

(C) a representative of the interests of senior citizens; and

(D) not fewer than 10, and not more than 20, members appointed by the Commission, from among individuals who—(i) represent the interests of individual equity and debt investors, including investors in mutual funds;

(ii) represent the interests of institutional investors, including the interests of pension funds and registered investment companies;

(iii) are knowledgeable about investment issues and decisions; and

(iv) have reputations of integrity.



(2) TermEach member of the Committee appointed under paragraph (1)(B) shall serve for a term of 4 years.


(3) Members not Commission employeesMembers appointed under paragraph (1)(B) shall not be deemed to be employees or agents of the Commission solely because of membership on the Committee.



(c) Chairman; vice chairman; secretary; assistant secretary(1) In generalThe members of the Committee shall elect, from among the members of the Committee—(A) a chairman, who may not be employed by an issuer;

(B) a vice chairman, who may not be employed by an issuer;

(C) a secretary; and

(D) an assistant secretary.


(2) TermEach member elected under paragraph (1) shall serve for a term of 3 years in the capacity for which the member was elected under paragraph (1).



(d) Meetings(1) Frequency of meetingsThe Committee shall meet—(A) not less frequently than twice annually, at the call of the chairman of the Committee; and

(B) from time to time, at the call of the Commission.


(2) NoticeThe chairman of the Committee shall give the members of the Committee written notice of each meeting, not later than 2 weeks before the date of the meeting.



(e) Compensation and travel expensesEach member of the Committee who is not a full-time employee of the United States shall—(1) be entitled to receive compensation at a rate not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for a position at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5 for each day during which the member is engaged in the actual performance of the duties of the Committee; and

(2) while away from the home or regular place of business of the member in the performance of services for the Committee, be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703(b) 11 So in original. Section 5703 of Title 5 does not contain a subsec. (b). of title 5.


(f) StaffThe Commission shall make available to the Committee such staff as the chairman of the Committee determines are necessary to carry out this section.


(g) Review by CommissionThe Commission shall—(1) review the findings and recommendations of the Committee; and

(2) each time the Committee submits a finding or recommendation to the Commission, promptly issue a public statement—(A) assessing the finding or recommendation of the Committee; and

(B) disclosing the action, if any, the Commission intends to take with respect to the finding or recommendation.



(h) Committee findingsNothing in this section shall require the Commission to agree to or act upon any finding or recommendation of the Committee.


(i) Federal Advisory Committee ActThe Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply with respect to the Committee and its activities.


(j) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to the Commission such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.


(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, § 39, as added Pub. L. 111–203, title IX, § 911, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1822.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (i), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Effective DateSection effective 1 day after July 21, 2010, except as otherwise provided, see section 4 of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 5301 of Title 12, Banks and Banking.


