§ 1281. Administration(a) Public use and enjoyment of components; protection of features; management plansEach component of the national wild and scenic rivers system shall be administered in such manner as to protect and enhance the values which caused it to be included in said system without, insofar as is consistent therewith, limiting other uses that do not substantially interfere with public use and enjoyment of these values. In such administration primary emphasis shall be given to protecting its esthetic, scenic, historic, archeologic, and scientific features. Management plans for any such component may establish varying degrees of intensity for its protection and development, based on the special attributes of the area.


(b) Wilderness areasAny portion of a component of the national wild and scenic rivers system that is within the national wilderness preservation system, as established by or pursuant to the Wilderness Act [16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.], shall be subject to the provisions of both the Wilderness Act and this chapter with respect to preservation of such river and its immediate environment, and in case of conflict between the provisions of the Wilderness Act and this chapter the more restrictive provisions shall apply.


(c) Areas administered by National Park Service and Fish and Wildlife ServiceAny component of the national wild and scenic rivers system that is administered by the Secretary of the Interior through the National Park Service shall become a part of the national park system, and any such component that is administered by the Secretary through the Fish and Wildlife Service shall become a part of the national wildlife refuge system. The lands involved shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter and the Acts under which the national park system or national wildlife system, as the case may be, is administered, and in case of conflict between the provisions of this chapter and such Acts, the more restrictive provisions shall apply. The Secretary of the Interior, in his administration of any component of the national wild and scenic rivers system, may utilize such general statutory authorities relating to areas of the national park system and such general statutory authorities otherwise available to him for recreation and preservation purposes and for the conservation and management of natural resources as he deems appropriate to carry out the purposes of this chapter.


(d) Statutory authorities relating to national forestsThe Secretary of Agriculture, in his administration of any component of the national wild and scenic rivers system area, may utilize the general statutory authorities relating to the national forests in such manner as he deems appropriate to carry out the purposes of this chapter.


(e) Cooperative agreements with State and local governmentsThe Federal agency charged with the administration of any component of the national wild and scenic rivers system may enter into written cooperative agreements with the Governor of a State, the head of any State agency, or the appropriate official of a political subdivision of a State for State or local governmental participation in the administration of the component. The States and their political subdivisions shall be encouraged to cooperate in the planning and administration of components of the system which include or adjoin State- or county-owned lands.


(Pub. L. 90–542, § 10, Oct. 2, 1968, 82 Stat. 916.)


References in TextThe Wilderness Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 88–577, Sept. 3, 1964, 78 Stat. 890, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 23 (§ 1131 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1131 of this title and Tables.
The Acts under which the national park system and the national wildlife system are administered, referred to in subsec. (c), are classified generally to this title.

Codification
The first reference to the Wilderness Act in subsec. (b) was in the original a reference to the Act of September 3, 1964 (78 Stat. 890).


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of certain enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of the Interior and Secretary or other official in Department of Agriculture under this chapter to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, and subsequent transfer to Secretary of Energy, then to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects, see note set out under section 1278 of this title.

Management of Segment of Salmon River Designated as Component of Wild and Scenic River System Located Within Frank Church—River of No Return Wilderness or Gospel-Hump WildernessPub. L. 96–312, § 9(b), July 23, 1980, 94 Stat. 953, as amended Pub. L. 98–231, § 1, Mar. 14, 1984, 98 Stat. 60, provided: “That segment of the main Salmon River designated as a component of the Wild and Scenic Rivers System by this Act [see 16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(24)], which lies within the Frank Church—River of No Return Wilderness or the Gospel-Hump Wilderness designated by Public Law 95–237 [Pub. L. 95–237, § 4, Feb. 24, 1978, 92 Stat. 43], shall be managed under the provisions of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, as amended [16 U.S.C. 1271 et seq], and the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, notwithstanding section 10(b) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act [16 U.S.C. 1281(b)] or any provisions of the Wilderness Act [16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.] to the contrary.”



