§ 6104. Actions by private persons(a) In generalAny person adversely affected by any pattern or practice of telemarketing which violates any rule of the Commission under section 6102 of this title, or an authorized person acting on such person’s behalf, may, within 3 years after discovery of the violation, bring a civil action in an appropriate district court of the United States against a person who has engaged or is engaging in such pattern or practice of telemarketing if the amount in controversy exceeds the sum or value of $50,000 in actual damages for each person adversely affected by such telemarketing. Such an action may be brought to enjoin such telemarketing, to enforce compliance with any rule of the Commission under section 6102 of this title, to obtain damages, or to obtain such further and other relief as the court may deem appropriate.


(b) NoticeThe plaintiff shall serve prior written notice of the action upon the Commission and provide the Commission with a copy of its complaint, except in any case where such prior notice is not feasible, in which case the person shall serve such notice immediately upon instituting such action. The Commission shall have the right (A) to intervene in the action, (B) upon so intervening, to be heard on all matters arising therein, and (C) to file petitions for appeal.


(c) Action by Commission or the Bureau of Consumer Financial ProtectionWhenever a civil action has been instituted by or on behalf of the Commission or the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection for violation of any rule prescribed under section 6102 of this title, no person may, during the pendency of such action instituted by or on behalf of the Commission or the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, institute a civil action against any defendant named in the complaint in such action for violation of any rule as alleged in such complaint.


(d) Cost and feesThe court, in issuing any final order in any action brought under subsection (a) of this section, may award costs of suit and reasonable fees for attorneys and expert witnesses to the prevailing party.


(e) ConstructionNothing in this section shall restrict any right which any person may have under any statute or common law.


(f) Venue; service of processAny civil action brought under subsection (a) of this section in a district court of the United States may be brought in the district in which the defendant is found, is an inhabitant, or transacts business or wherever venue is proper under section 1391 of title 28. Process in such an action may be served in any district in which the defendant is an inhabitant or in which the defendant may be found.


(Pub. L. 103–297, § 5, Aug. 16, 1994, 108 Stat. 1549; Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1100C(c), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2111.)

Amendments2010—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 111–203 inserted “or the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection” after “Commission” wherever appearing.

Effective Date of 2010 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1100H of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 552a of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


