§ 3637. Prohibited acts and penalties(a) Unlawful actsIt is unlawful for any person or vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States—(1) to violate any provision of this chapter, or of any regulation adopted hereunder, or of any Fraser River Panel regulation approved by the United States under the Treaty;

(2) to refuse to permit any officer authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter to board a fishing vessel subject to such person’s control for purposes of conducting any search or inspection in connection with the enforcement of this chapter;

(3) to forcibly assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, or interfere with any such authorized officer in the conduct of any search or inspection described in subparagraph (2);

(4) to resist a lawful arrest for any act prohibited by this section;

(5) to ship, transport, offer for sale, sell, purchase, import, export, or have custody, control, or possession of, any fish taken or retained in violation of this chapter; or

(6) to interfere with, delay, or prevent, by any means, the apprehension or arrest of another person, knowing that such other person has committed any act prohibited by this section.


(b) Civil penaltyAny person who commits any act that is unlawful under subsection (a) of this section shall be liable to the United States for a civil penalty as provided by section 308 of the Magnuson Act (16 U.S.C. 1858).


(c) Criminal penaltyAny person who commits an act that is unlawful under paragraph (2), (3), (4), or (6) of subsection (a) of this section shall be guilty of an offense punishable as provided by section 309(b) of the Magnuson Act (16 U.S.C. 1859(b)).


(d) Forfeiture(1) Any vessel (including its gear, furniture, appurtenances, stores, and cargo) used in the commission of an act which is prohibited under subsection (a) of this section, and any fish (or the fair market value thereof) taken or retained, in any manner, in connection with or as a result of the commission of any act which is prohibited by subsection (a) of this section, shall be subject to forfeiture as provided by section 310 of the Magnuson Act (16 U.S.C. 1860).

(2) Any fish seized pursuant to this chapter may be disposed of pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction or, if perishable, in a manner prescribed by regulation of the Secretary.


(e) Enforcement authorityThe Secretary and the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall have the authority provided by subsections 311(a), (b)(1), and (c) of the Magnuson Act (16 U.S.C. 1861(a), (b)(1), and (c)).


(f) JurisdictionThe district courts of the United States shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any case or controversy arising under this section and may, at any time—(1) enter restraining orders or prohibitions;

(2) issue warrants, process in rem, or other process;

(3) prescribe and accept satisfactory bonds or other security; and

(4) take such other actions as are in the interest of justice.


(Pub. L. 99–5, § 8, Mar. 15, 1985, 99 Stat. 12.)


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


