“SEC. 103. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRESIDIO TRUST.“(a) Establishment.—There is established a wholly owned government corporation to be known as the Presidio Trust (hereinafter in this title referred to as the ‘Trust’).

“(b) Transfer.—(1) Within 60 days after receipt of a request from the Trust for the transfer of any parcel within the area depicted as Area B on the map entitled ‘Presidio Trust Number 1’, dated December 7, 1995, the Secretary shall transfer such parcel to the administrative jurisdiction of the Trust. Within 1 year after the first meeting of the Board of Directors of the Trust, the Secretary shall transfer to the Trust administrative jurisdiction over all remaining parcels within Area B. Such map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the Trust and in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The Trust and the Secretary may jointly make technical and clerical revisions in the boundary depicted on such map. The Secretary shall retain jurisdiction over those portions of the building identified as number 102 as the Secretary deems essential for use as a visitor center. The Building shall be named the ‘William Penn Mott Visitor Center’. Any parcel of land, the jurisdiction over which is transferred pursuant to this subsection, shall remain within the boundary of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area. With the consent of the Secretary, the Trust may at any time transfer to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary any other properties within the Presidio which are surplus to the needs of the Trust and which serve essential purposes of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area. The Trust is encouraged to transfer to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary open space areas which have high public use potential and are contiguous to other lands administered by the Secretary.

“(2) Within 60 days after the first meeting of the Board of Directors of the Trust, the Trust and the Secretary shall determine cooperatively which records, equipment, and other personal property are deemed to be necessary for the immediate administration of the properties to be transferred, and the Secretary shall immediately transfer such personal property to the Trust. Within 1 year after the first meeting of the Board of Directors of the Trust, the Trust and the Secretary shall determine cooperatively what, if any, additional records, equipment, and other personal property used by the Secretary in the administration of the properties to be transferred should be transferred to the Trust.

“(3) The Secretary shall transfer, with the transfer of administrative jurisdiction over any property, the unobligated balance of all funds appropriated to the Secretary, all leases, concessions, licenses, permits, and other agreements affecting such property.

“(4) At the request of the Trust, the Secretary shall provide funds to the Trust for preparation of the program required under section 104(c) of this title, hiring of initial staff and other activities deemed by the Trust as essential to the establishment of the Trust prior to the transfer of properties to the Trust.


“(c) Board of Directors.—“(1) In general.—The powers and management of the Trust shall be vested in a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’) consisting of the following 7 members:“(A) The Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary’s designee.

“(B) 6 individuals, who are not employees of the Federal Government, appointed by the President, who shall possess extensive knowledge and experience in one or more of the fields of city planning, finance, real estate development, and resource conservation. At least one of these individuals shall be a veteran of the Armed Services. At least 3 of these individuals shall reside in the San Francisco Bay Area. The President shall make the appointments referred to in this subparagraph within 90 days after the enactment of this Act [Nov. 12, 1996] and shall ensure that the fields of city planning, finance, real estate development, and resource conservation are adequately represented. Upon establishment of the Trust, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Trust shall meet with the Chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee of the United States Senate and the Chairman of the Resources Committee of the United States House of Representatives.


“(2) Terms.—Members of the Board appointed under paragraph (1)(B) shall each serve for a term of 4 years, except that of the members first appointed, 3 shall serve for a term of 2 years. Any vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made, and any member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of that term for which his or her predecessor was appointed. No appointed member may serve more than 8 years in consecutive terms, except that upon the expiration of his or her term, an appointed member may continue to serve until his or her successor has been appointed.

“(3) Quorum.—Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of business by the Board.

“(4) Organization and compensation.—The Board shall organize itself in such a manner as it deems most appropriate to effectively carry out the authorized activities of the Trust. Board members shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for the actual and necessary travel and subsistence expenses incurred by them in the performance of the duties of the Trust.

“(5) Liability of directors.—Members of the Board of Directors shall not be considered Federal employees by virtue of their membership on the Board, except for purposes of the Federal Tort Claims Act [see Short Title note under section 2671 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure] and the Ethics in Government Act [of 1978] [5 U.S.C. App.], and the provisions of chapter 11 of title 18, United States Code.

“(6) Meetings.—The Board shall meet at least three times per year in San Francisco and at least two of those meetings shall be open to the public. Upon a majority vote, the Board may close any other meetings to the public. The Board shall establish procedures for providing public information and opportunities for public comment regarding policy, planning, and design issues. The Board may establish procedures for providing public information and opportunities for public comment regarding policy, planning, and design issues through the Golden Gate National Recreation Area Advisory Commission.

“(7) Staff.—Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Trust is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation and duties and terminate the services of an executive director and such other officers and employees as it deems necessary without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, or other laws related to the appointment, compensation or termination of Federal employees.

“(8) Necessary powers.—The Trust shall have all necessary and proper powers for the exercise of the authorities vested in it.

“(9) Taxes.—The Trust and all properties administered by the Trust and all interest created under leases, concessions, permits and other agreements associated with the properties shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of every kind by the State of California, and its political subdivisions, including the City and County of San Francisco.

“(10) Government corporation.—(A) The Trust shall be treated as a wholly owned Government corporation subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code (commonly referred to as the Government Corporation Control Act). Financial statements of the Trust shall be audited annually in accordance with section 9105 of title 31 of the United States Code.

“(B) At the end of each calendar year, the Trust shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on Resources [now Committee on Natural Resources] of the House of Representatives a comprehensive and detailed report of its operations, activities, and accomplishments for the prior fiscal year. The report also shall include a section that describes in general terms the Trust’s goals for the current fiscal year.



