§ 460xxx. Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation Area(a) PurposeThe purpose of this section is to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations the ecological, scenic, wildlife, recreational, cultural, historical, natural, educational, and scientific resources of the Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation Area.


(b) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Management planThe term “management plan” means the management plan for the National Conservation Area developed by the Secretary under subsection (d)(1).


(2) National Conservation AreaThe term “National Conservation Area” means the Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation Area that—(A) consists of approximately 68,083 acres of public land in the County, as generally depicted on the Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation Area Map; and

(B) is established by subsection (c).



(c) EstablishmentSubject to valid existing rights, there is established in the State the Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation Area.


(d) Management plan(1) In generalNot later than 3 years after March 30, 2009, and in accordance with paragraph (2), the Secretary shall develop a comprehensive plan for the long-term management of the National Conservation Area.


(2) ConsultationIn developing the management plan required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with—(A) appropriate State, tribal, and local governmental entities; and

(B) members of the public.


(3) Motorized vehiclesIn developing the management plan required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall incorporate the restrictions on motorized vehicles described in subsection (e)(3).



(e) Management(1) In generalThe Secretary shall manage the National Conservation Area—(A) in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances the resources of the National Conservation Area; and

(B) in accordance with—(i) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);

(ii) this section; and

(iii) any other applicable law (including regulations).



(2) UsesThe Secretary shall only allow uses of the National Conservation Area that the Secretary determines would further the purpose described in subsection (a).


(3) Motorized vehicles(A) In generalExcept in cases in which motorized vehicles are needed for administrative purposes, or to respond to an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles in the National Conservation Area shall be permitted only on roads designated by the management plan for the use of motorized vehicles.


(B) Additional requirement relating to certain areas located in the National Conservation AreaIn addition to the requirement described in subparagraph (A), with respect to the areas designated on the Beaver Dam Wash National Conservation Area Map as “Designated Road Areas”, motorized vehicles shall be permitted only on the roads identified on such map.



(4) GrazingThe grazing of livestock in the National Conservation Area, where established before March 30, 2009, shall be permitted to continue—(A) subject to—(i) such reasonable regulations, policies, and practices as the Secretary considers necessary; and

(ii) applicable law (including regulations); and


(B) in a manner consistent with the purpose described in subsection (a).


(5) Wildland fire operationsNothing in this section prohibits the Secretary, in cooperation with other Federal, State, and local agencies, as appropriate, from conducting wildland fire operations in the National Conservation Area, consistent with the purposes of this section.



(f) Incorporation of acquired land and interestsAny land or interest in land that is located in the National Conservation Area that is acquired by the United States shall—(1) become part of the National Conservation Area; and

(2) be managed in accordance with—(A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);

(B) this section; and

(C) any other applicable law (including regulations).



(g) Withdrawal(1) In generalSubject to valid existing rights, all Federal land located in the National Conservation Area is withdrawn from—(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under the public land laws;

(B) location, entry, and patenting under the mining laws; and

(C) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.


(2) Additional landIf the Secretary acquires additional land that is located in the National Conservation Area after March 30, 2009, the land is withdrawn from operation of the laws referred to in paragraph (1) on the date of acquisition of the land.



(Pub. L. 111–11, title I, § 1975, Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1083.)


References in TextThe Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in subsecs. (e)(1)(B)(i) and (f)(2)(A), is Pub. L. 94–579, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2743, which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of Title 43 and Tables.


Definitions
For definitions of terms used in this section, see section 1971 of Pub. L. 111–11, set out as a note under section 460www of this title.


