§ 460pp. Establishment(a) In generalIn order to assure the conservation and protection of certain natural, scenic, historic, pastoral, and fish and wildlife values and to provide for the enhancement of the recreational values associated therewith, the Mount Baker National Recreation Area located in the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest, Washington, is hereby established.


(b) AcreageThe Mount Baker National Recreation Area (hereafter referred to as the “recreation area”) shall comprise approximately eight thousand six hundred acres as generally depicted on the map entitled “Mount Baker National Recreation Area—Proposed”, dated March 1984, which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Chief, Forest Service, Department of Agriculture.


(c) Map and legal descriptionThe Secretary of Agriculture shall, as soon as practicable after July 3, 1984, file a map and a legal description of the recreation area with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, United States Senate, and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, House of Representatives, and each such map and legal description shall have the same force and effect as if included in this subchapter: Provided, That correction of clerical and typographical errors in such legal description and map may be made. The map and legal description shall be on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Chief of the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture.


(d) AdministrationThe Secretary shall administer the recreation area in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the national forests in such manner as will best provide for (1) public outdoor recreation (including but not limited to snowmobile use); (2) conservation of scenic, natural, historic, and other values contributing to public enjoyment; and (3) such management, utilization, and disposal of natural resources on federally owned lands within the recreation area which are compatible with and which do not significantly impair the purposes for which the recreation area is established.


(Pub. L. 98–339, § 7, July 3, 1984, 98 Stat. 304.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsec. (c), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 98–339, July 3, 1984, 98 Stat. 299, known as the Washington State Wilderness Act of 1984, which enacted this subchapter and provisions listed in a table of Wilderness Areas set out under section 1132 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.


Change of Name
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.


