§ 1445c–1. Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarship Program(a) EstablishmentThe Secretary of Commerce shall establish and administer through the National Ocean Service the Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarship Program. Under the program, the Secretary shall award graduate education scholarships in marine biology, oceanography, or maritime archaeology, including the curation, preservation, and display of maritime artifacts, to be known as “Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarships”.


(b) PurposeThe purpose of the Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarship Program is to recognize outstanding scholarship in marine biology, oceanography, or maritime archaeology, particularly by women and members of minority groups, and encourage independent graduate level research in such fields of study.


(c) AwardEach Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarship award—(1) shall be used to support a candidate’s graduate studies in marine biology, oceanography, or maritime archaeology at a sponsoring institution; and

(2) shall be made available to individual candidates in accordance with guidelines issued by the Secretary.


(d) Distribution of fundsThe amount of each Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarship shall be provided directly to each recipient selected by the Secretary upon receipt of certification that the recipient will adhere to a specific and detailed plan of study and research approved by the sponsoring institution.


(e) FundingThe Secretary shall make 1 percent of the amount appropriated each fiscal year to carry out the National Marine Sanctuaries Act [16 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.] available for Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarships.


(f) Scholarship repayment requirementRepayment of the award shall be made to the Secretary in the case of fraud or noncompliance.


(Pub. L. 106–553, § 1(a)(2) [title II, § 210], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2762, 2762A–79.)


References in TextThe National Marine Sanctuaries Act, referred to in subsec. (e), is title III of Pub. L. 92–532, Oct. 23, 1972, 86 Stat. 1061, as amended, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1431 of this title and Tables.

Codification
For similar provisions relating to the Dr. Nancy Foster Scholarship Program, see section 1445c of this title.
Section was enacted as part of the Department of Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001, and also as part of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001, and not as part of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act which comprises this chapter.


