“SEC. 205. ENFORCEMENT RELATING TO TRADE IN TEXTILE AND APPAREL GOODS.“(a) Denial of Permission To Conduct Site Visits.—“(1) In general.—Subject to paragraph (2), if the Secretary of the Treasury proposes to conduct a site visit at an enterprise registered under article 5.3 of the Agreement, and responsible officials of the enterprise do not consent to the proposed visit, the President may exclude from the customs territory of the United States textile and apparel goods produced or exported by that enterprise.

“(2) Termination of exclusion.—An exclusion of textile and apparel goods produced or exported by an enterprise under paragraph (1) shall terminate when the President determines that the enterprise’s production of, and capability to produce, the goods are consistent with statements by the enterprise that textile or apparel goods the enterprise produces or has produced are originating goods or products of Singapore, as the case may be.


“(b) Knowing or Willful Circumvention.—“(1) In general.—If the President finds that an enterprise of Singapore has knowingly or willfully engaged in circumvention, the President may exclude from the customs territory of the United States textile and apparel goods produced or exported by the enterprise. An exclusion under this paragraph may be imposed on the date beginning on the date a finding of knowing or willful circumvention is made and shall be in effect for a period not longer than the applicable period described in paragraph (2).

“(2) Time periods.—“(A) First finding.—With respect to a first finding under paragraph (1), the applicable period is 6 months.

“(B) Second finding.—With respect to a second finding under paragraph (1), the applicable period is 2 years.

“(C) Third and subsequent finding.—With respect to a third or subsequent finding under paragraph (1), the applicable period is 2 years. If, at the time of a third or subsequent finding, an exclusion is in effect as a result of a previous finding, the 2-year period applicable to the third or subsequent finding shall begin on the day after the day on which the previous exclusion terminates.



“(c) Certain Other Instances of Circumvention.—If the President consults with Singapore pursuant to article 5.8 of the Agreement, the consultations fail to result in a mutually satisfactory solution to the matters at issue, and the President presents to Singapore clear evidence of circumvention under the Agreement, the President may—“(1) deny preferential tariff treatment to the goods involved in the circumvention; and

“(2) deny preferential tariff treatment, for a period not to exceed 4 years from the date on which consultations pursuant to article 5.8 of the Agreement conclude, to—“(A) textile and apparel goods produced by the enterprise found to have engaged in the circumvention, including any successor of such enterprise; and

“(B) textile and apparel goods produced by any other entity owned or operated by a principal of the enterprise, if the principal also is a principal of the other entity.



“(d) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) General definitions.—The terms ‘circumvention’, ‘preferential tariff treatment’, ‘principal’, and ‘textile and apparel goods’ have the meanings given such terms in chapter 5 of the Agreement.

“(2) Enterprise.—The term ‘enterprise’ has the meaning given that term in article 1.2.3 of the Agreement.


