§ 78ll. Requirements for the EDGAR system
The Commission, by rule or regulation—(1) shall provide that any information in the EDGAR system that is required to be disseminated by the contractor—(A) may be sold or disseminated by the contractor only pursuant to a uniform schedule of fees prescribed by the Commission;

(B) may be obtained by a purchaser by direct interconnection with the EDGAR system;

(C) shall be equally available on equal terms to all persons; and

(D) may be used, resold, or redisseminated by any person who has lawfully obtained such information without restriction and without payment of additional fees or royalties; and


(2) shall require that persons, or classes of persons, required to make filings with the Commission submit such filings in a form and manner suitable for entry into the EDGAR system and shall specify the date that such requirement is effective with respect to that person or class; except that the Commission may exempt persons or classes of persons, or filings or classes of filings, from such rules or regulations in order to prevent hardships or to avoid imposing unreasonable burdens or as otherwise may be necessary or appropriate.

(June 6, 1934, ch. 404, title I, § 35A, as added Pub. L. 100–181, title I, § 102, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1249; amended Pub. L. 105–353, title II, § 202, Nov. 3, 1998, 112 Stat. 3234.)

Codification
Pub. L. 100–181, which directed amendment of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by adding this section after section 35 of the Act, is reflected in the source credit above as adding this section to title I of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. See Codification note set out under section 78kk of this title.

Amendments1998—Subsecs. (a) to (c). Pub. L. 105–353, § 202(1), struck out subsecs. (a) to (c) which: in subsec. (a) required certifications and reports as prerequisite to obligation or expenditure of funds for establishment or operation of EDGAR system, and provided that former section 78kk(b) amounts were to be exclusive source of funds for systems procurement and operation; in subsec. (b) required report on status of EDGAR development, implementation, and progress to certain Congressional committees at six-month intervals; and in subsec. (c) required certification to Congressional committees of total costs, cost/benefit analysis, assurances of compliance, capabilities of system, competence of personnel, and review of test group filings prior to entering into contract for EDGAR system.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 105–353, § 202(2), struck out “(d)” before “The Commission” in introductory provisions, in par. (2) substituted period for “; and” at end, and struck out par. (3) which read as follows: “shall require all persons who make any filing with the Commission, in addition to complying with such other rules concerning the form and manner of filing as the Commission may prescribe, to submit such filings in written or printed form—
“(A) for a period of at least one year after the effective date specified for such person or class under paragraph (2); or
“(B) for a shorter period if the Commission determines that the EDGAR system (i) is reliable, (ii) provides a suitable alternative to such written and printed filings, and (iii) assures that the provision of information through the EDGAR system is as effective and efficient for filers, users, and disseminators as provision of such information in written or printed form.”
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 105–353, § 202(1), struck out subsec. (e) which read as follows: “For the purposes of carrying out its responsibilities under subsection (d)(3) of this section, the Commission shall consult with representatives of persons filing, disseminating, and using information contained in filings with the Commission.”


