§ 460bbb–9. State and local jurisdiction and assistance(a) State and local jurisdictionNothing in this subchapter shall diminish, enlarge, or modify any right of the State of California or any political subdivision thereof, to exercise civil and criminal jurisdiction or to carry out State fish and game laws, rules, and regulations within the recreation area, or to tax persons, franchise, or private property on the lands and waters included in the recreation area, or to regulate the private lands within the recreation area.


(b) Cooperative agreementsThe Secretary is authorized and encouraged to enter into cooperative agreements with the State of California or its political subdivisions for—(1) the rendering on a reimbursable basis, of rescue, firefighting, and law enforcement services and cooperative assistance by nearby law enforcement and fire prevention agencies; and

(2) the planning for use, management, and development of non-Federal lands within the recreation area and elsewhere in the Smith River watershed in the furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter.


(c) Technical assistanceTo enable the State of California and its political subdivisions to develop and implement programs compatible with the purposes of this subchapter, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretaries of the Interior, Commerce, and Housing and Urban Development, shall consider upon request such technical assistance to the State and its political subdivisions as is necessary to fulfill the purposes of this section. Such assistance may include payments or grants, within existing programs, for technical aid and program development.


(d) Land information systemThe Secretary of Agriculture shall assist the county of Del Norte in developing a land information system that will be compatible with the Forest Service and National Park Service systems for the Federal lands in Del Norte County and such non-Federal systems as may be appropriate and that will be made available to Federal and non-Federal entities for use in coordinating planning for the recreation area and other lands in the Smith River watershed.


(Pub. L. 101–612, § 12, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3221.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a), (b)(2), and (c), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 101–612, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3209, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 460bbb of this title and Tables.


