§ 5404. National Maritime Heritage Grants Advisory Committee(a) EstablishmentThere is hereby established a National Maritime Heritage Grants Advisory Committee.


(b) Membership(1) In generalThe Committee shall consist of 13 members appointed by the Secretary from among individual members of the public who—(A) are representatives of various sectors of the maritime community who are knowledgeable and experienced in maritime heritage and preservation;

(B) to the extent practicable, are selected in a manner that ensures regional geographic balance;

(C) to the extent practicable, include a representative of each of the fields of—(i) small craft preservation;

(ii) large vessel preservation;

(iii) sail training;

(iv) preservation architecture;

(v) underwater archaeology;

(vi) lighthouse preservation;

(vii) maritime education;

(viii) military naval history;

(ix) maritime museums or historical societies;

(x) maritime arts and crafts;

(xi) maritime heritage tourism; and

(xii) maritime recreational resources management; and


(D) include a member of the general public.


(2) Ex officio membersIn addition to the members appointed under paragraph (1), the President of the National Trust and the President of the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers (or their respective designees) shall be ex officio voting members of the Committee.


(3) TermThe term of a member of the Committee appointed under paragraph (1) shall be 3 years, except that of the members first appointed 4 shall be appointed for an initial term of 1 year and 4 shall be appointed for an initial term of 2 years, as specified by the Secretary at the time of appointment.


(4) Completion of appointmentsThe Secretary shall complete appointment of the members of the Committee under paragraph (1) by not later than 120 days after November 2, 1994.


(5) VacanciesIn the case of a vacancy in the membership of the Committee appointed under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall appoint an individual to serve the remainder of the term that is vacant by not later than 60 days after the vacancy occurs.



(c) Federal Government ex officio membersThere shall be ex officio Federal Government members of the Committee as follows:(1) At least 1 individual designated by each of—(A) the Director of the National Park Service;

(B) the Administrator of the Maritime Administration;

(C) the Commandant of the Coast Guard;

(D) the Secretary of the Navy;

(E) the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and

(F) the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.


(2) Other representatives designated by the heads of such other interested Federal Government agencies as the Secretary considers appropriate.


(d) Duties of CommitteeThe duties of the Committee include—(1) reviewing direct grant and subgrant proposals and making funding recommendations to the Secretary;

(2) identifying and advising the Secretary regarding priorities for achieving the policy set forth in section 5402 of this title;

(3) reviewing the Secretary’s annual report to the Congress under section 5403(k) of this title; and

(4) performing any other duties the Secretary considers appropriate.


(e) QuorumNine members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for making recommendations on subgrant applications.


(f) Appointments processThe Secretary shall—(1) publicize annually, in the Federal Register and through publications of preservation and maritime organizations, a request for submission of nominations for appointments to the Committee under subsection (b)(1) of this section; and

(2) designate from among the members of the Committee—(A) a Chairman; and

(B) a Vice Chairman who may act in place of the Chairman during the absence or disability of the Chairman or when the office of Chairman is vacant.



(g) Compensation and travel expensesAn individual shall not receive any pay by reason of membership on the Committee. While away from home or regular place of business in the performance of service for the Committee, a member of the Committee shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as a person employed intermittently in the Government service is allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5.


(h) Staff of Federal agenciesUpon request of the Committee, the Secretary may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of the Department of the Interior to the Committee to assist it in carrying out its duties under this chapter.


(i) Administrative support servicesUpon the request of the Committee, the National Trust shall provide to the Committee the support services necessary for the Committee to carry out its duties under this chapter.


(j) Relationship to other lawThe Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the Committee, except that meetings of the Committee may be closed to the public by majority vote and section 14(b) of that Act does not apply to the Committee.


(k) TerminationThe Committee shall terminate on September 30, 2000.


(Pub. L. 103–451, § 5, Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4774.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (j), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


