§ 460aaa–6. Management plan(a) DevelopmentAfter the Secretary acquires fee title to at least 10,000 acres of land on Grand Island, the Secretary, within 30 months, shall develop with public involvement a comprehensive management plan for the national recreation area which implements the provisions of this subchapter.


(b) Special issues to be includedThe comprehensive management plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following issues:(1) Public recreation, including consideration of a range of appropriate recreational opportunities consistent with the rustic, natural, and historic character of the island, including, but not limited to, a system of trails and campsites in conjunction with the lodge referred to in paragraph (2) of this section.11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection.”

(2) The feasibility of a concessionaire constructed, operated, and maintained rustic lodge and educational facility on no more than 55 acres located so as not to impair or alter existing scenic views or the existing tree line and forested appearance of Grand Island from any point within the boundaries of Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore. The plan shall address the economics of constructing, operating, and maintaining such a facility by a concessionaire or other entity; access by roads and waters; utilities; waste water treatment, garbage disposal, and other associated environmental impacts; management operations including construction, operation and maintenance; and the potential for permitted uses by government agencies, profit and nonprofit organizations, or individuals.

(3) Prescriptions concerning any management and harvest of timber, subject to section 460aaa–2(b)(4) of this title.

(4) General design criteria for new facilities or the improvement of existing facilities that are compatible with the rustic, natural, and historic character of the island and their topographic and geological location, and that do not impair scenic views from the Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore.

(5) Water transportation from the mainland to the national recreation area by a concessionaire or other entity.

(6) The feasibility of concessionaire constructed, operated, and maintained docking facilities in the national recreation area and on the mainland.

(7) An inventory and assessment of existing traditional roads, the level of road use, access needs, and any vehicular regulation and management needed to protect the resources of the national recreation area while, at the same time, providing reasonable access to private property.


(c) ConsultationIn preparing the comprehensive management plan, the Secretary shall consult with the appropriate State and local government officials, provide for full public participation, and consider the views of all interested parties, organizations, and individuals.


(Pub. L. 101–292, § 7, May 17, 1990, 104 Stat. 188.)
