§ 410oo–3. Administration(a) In generalThe Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with this subchapter and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and sections 461 to 467 of this title. Properties acquired under this subchapter for purposes of inclusion in the park shall be available for visitor inspection and enjoyment as promptly as practicable after the date of acquisition notwithstanding the absence of a park management plan.


(b) DonationsNotwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may accept and expend donations of funds, property, or services from individuals, foundations, corporations, or public entities for the purpose of providing services and facilities which he deems consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.


(c) Historic districts(1) Study of historic propertiesThe Secretary shall prepare and transmit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate a study of the properties in the city of Natchez and its immediate environs that preserve and interpret the history contained in the purposes of this subchapter. Such report shall consider which properties best exemplify such purposes and appropriate means for providing technical assistance to, and interpretation of, such properties. The study and report shall include consideration of Natchez-Under-the-Hill and the Briars.


(2) Establishment of districtsFollowing completion of the study under paragraph (1), but not later than one year after October 7, 1988, the Secretary shall establish historic districts in the city of Natchez and its immediate environs for the preservation and interpretation of the resources that contribute to the understanding of the purposes of this subchapter.


(3) Cooperative agreements with ownersIn furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter, and after consultation with the Advisory Commission established by this subchapter, the Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with the owners of properties of historical or cultural significance (as determined by the Secretary) within any historic district established under this subsection. Such agreements shall permit the Secretary to mark, interpret, improve, restore, and provide technical assistance with respect to the preservation and interpretation of such properties. Such agreements shall contain, but need not be limited to, provisions that the Secretary shall have the right of access at reasonable times to public portions of any property covered by such agreement for purposes of conducting visitors through such properties and interpreting them to the public, and that no changes or alterations shall be made in the property except by mutual agreement between the Secretary and other parties to the agreement.



(d) General management planWithin three complete fiscal years after October 7, 1988, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate a general management plan for the park. The plan shall be prepared in accordance with section 1a–7(b) of this title. Such plan shall identify appropriate facilities for proper interpretation of the site for visitors.


(Pub. L. 100–479, § 4, Oct. 7, 1988, 102 Stat. 2325.)


Change of Name
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.


