“SEC. 5. TRIBAL RIGHTS AND AUTHORITY ON THE TIMBISHA SHOSHONE HOMELAND.“(a) In General.—Subject to valid existing rights (existing on the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 1, 2000]), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the lands, including improvements and appurtenances, described in subsection (b) are declared to be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Tribe. All maps referred to in subsection (b) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service and the Bureau of Land Management.

“(b) Park Lands and Bureau of Land Management Lands Described.—“(1) In general.—The following lands and water shall be held in trust for the Tribe pursuant to subsection (a):“(A) Furnace Creek, Death Valley National Park, California, an area of 313.99 acres for community development, residential development, historic restoration, and visitor-related economic development, depicted as Tract 37 on the map of Township 27 North, Range 1 East, of the San Bernardino Meridian, California, numbered Map #1 and dated December 2, 1999, together with 92 acre feet per annum of surface and ground water for the purposes associated with the transfer of such lands. This area shall include a 25-acre, nondevelopment zone at the north end of the area and an Adobe Restoration zone containing several historic adobe homes, which shall be managed by the Tribe as a tribal historic district.

“(B) Death Valley Junction, California, an area of approximately 1,000 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Death Valley Junction, California’, numbered Map #2 and dated April 12, 2000, together with 15.1 acre feet per annum of ground water for the purposes associated with the transfer of such lands.

“(C)(i) Centennial, California, an area of approximately 640 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Centennial, California’, numbered Map #3 and dated April 12, 2000, together with an amount of ground water not to exceed 10 acre feet per annum for the purposes associated with the transfer of such lands.

“(ii) If the Secretary determines that there is insufficient ground water available on the lands described in clause (i) to satisfy the Tribe’s right to ground water to fulfill the purposes associated with the transfer of such lands, then the Tribe and the Secretary shall, within 2 years of such determination, identify approximately 640 acres of land that are administered by the Bureau of Land Management in that portion of Inyo County, California, to the north and east of the China Lake Naval Weapons Center, to be a mutually agreed upon substitute for the lands described in clause (i). If the Secretary determines that sufficient water is available to fulfill the purposes associated with the transfer of the lands described in the preceding sentence, then the Tribe shall request that the Secretary accept such lands into trust for the benefit of the Timbisha Shoshone Tribe, and the Secretary shall accept such lands, together with an amount of water not to exceed 10 acre feet per annum, into trust for the Tribe as a substitute for the lands described in clause (i).


“(D) Scotty’s Junction, Nevada, an area of approximately 2,800 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Scotty’s Junction, Nevada’, numbered Map #4 and dated April 12, 2000, together with 375.5 acre feet per annum of ground water for the purposes associated with the transfer of such lands.

“(E) Lida, Nevada, Community Parcel, an area of approximately 3,000 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Lida, Nevada, Community Parcel’, numbered Map #5 and dated April 12, 2000, together with 14.7 acre feet per annum of ground water for the purposes associated with the transfer of such lands.


“(2) Water rights.—The priority date of the Federal water rights described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1) shall be the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 1, 2000], and such Federal water rights shall be junior to Federal and State water rights existing on such date of enactment. Such Federal water rights shall not be subject to relinquishment, forfeiture or abandonment.

“(3) Limitations on furnace creek area development.—“(A) Development.—Recognizing the mutual interests and responsibilities of the Tribe and the National Park Service in and for the conservation and protection of the resources in the area described in paragraph (1), development in the area shall be limited to—“(i) for purposes of community and residential development—     “(I) a maximum of 50 single-family residences; and

     “(II) a tribal community center with space for tribal offices, recreation facilities, a multipurpose room and kitchen, and senior and youth facilities;


“(ii) for purposes of economic development—     “(I) a small-to-moderate desert inn; and

     “(II) a tribal museum and cultural center with a gift shop; and


“(iii) the infrastructure necessary to support the level of development described in clauses (i) and (ii).


“(B) Exception.—Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (A)(ii), the National Park Service and the Tribe are authorized to negotiate mutually agreed upon, visitor-related economic development in lieu of the development set forth in that subparagraph if such alternative development will have no greater environmental impact than the development set forth in that subparagraph.

“(C) Right-of-way.—The Tribe shall have a right-of-way for ingress and egress on Highway 190 in California.


“(4) Limitations on impact on mining claims.—Nothing in this Act shall be construed as terminating any valid mining claim existing on the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 1, 2000] on the land described in paragraph (1)(E). Any person with such an existing mining claim shall have all the rights incident to mining claims, including the rights of ingress and egress on the land described in paragraph (1)(E). Any person with such an existing mining claim shall have the right to occupy and use so much of the surface of the land as is required for all purposes reasonably necessary to mine and remove the minerals from the land, including the removal of timber for mining purposes. Such a mining claim shall terminate when the claim is determined to be invalid or is abandoned.


“(c) Legal Descriptions.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 1, 2000], the Secretary shall file a legal description of the areas described in subsection (b) with the Committee on Resources [now Committee on Natural Resources] of the House of Representatives and with the Committee on Indian Affairs and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate. Such legal description shall have the same force and effect as if the information contained in the description were included in that subsection except that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors in such legal description and in the maps referred to in the legal description. The legal description shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service and the Bureau of Land Management.

“(d) Additional Trust Resources.—The Secretary may purchase from willing sellers the following parcels and appurtenant water rights, or the water rights separately, to be taken into trust for the Tribe:“(1) Indian Rancheria Site, California, an area of approximately 120 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Indian Rancheria Site, California’ numbered Map #6 and dated December 3, 1999.

“(2) Lida Ranch, Nevada, an area of approximately 2,340 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Lida Ranch’ numbered Map #7 and dated April 6, 2000, or another parcel mutually agreed upon by the Secretary and the Tribe.


“(e) Special Use Areas.—“(1) In general.—The areas described in this subsection shall be nonexclusive special use areas for the Tribe, subject to other Federal law. Members of the Tribe are authorized to use these areas for low impact, ecologically sustainable, traditional practices pursuant to a jointly established management plan mutually agreed upon by the Tribe, and by the National Park Service or the Bureau of Land Management, as appropriate. All maps referred to in paragraph (4) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service and Bureau of Land Management.

“(2) Recognition of the history and culture of the tribe.—In the special use areas, in recognition of the significant contributions the Tribe has made to the history, ecology, and culture of the Park and to ensure that the visitor experience in the Park will be enhanced by the increased and continued presence of the Tribe, the Secretary shall permit the Tribe’s continued use of Park resources for traditional tribal purposes, practices, and activities.

“(3) Resource use by the tribe.—In the special use areas, any use of Park resources by the Tribe for traditional purposes, practices, and activities shall not include the taking of wildlife and shall not be in derogation of purposes and values for which the Park was established.

“(4) Specific areas.—The following areas are designated special use areas pursuant to paragraph (1):“(A) Mesquite use area.—The area generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Mesquite Use Area’ numbered Map #8 and dated April 12, 2000. The Tribe may use this area for processing mesquite using traditional plant management techniques such as thinning, pruning, harvesting, removing excess sand, and removing exotic species. The National Park Service may limit and condition, but not prohibit entirely, public use of this area or parts of this area, in consultation with the Tribe. This area shall be managed in accordance with the jointly established management plan referred to in paragraph (1).

“(B) Buffer area.—An area of approximately 1,500 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Buffer Area’ numbered Map #8 and dated April 12, 2000. The National Park Service shall restrict visitor use of this area to protect the privacy of the Tribe and to provide an opportunity for the Tribe to conduct community affairs without undue disruption from the public.

“(C) Timbisha shoshone natural and cultural preservation area.—An area that primarily consists of Park lands and also a small portion of Bureau of Land Management land in California, as generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Timbisha Shoshone Natural and Cultural Preservation Area’ numbered Map #9 and dated April 12, 2000.


“(5) Additional provisions.—With respect to the Timbisha Shoshone Natural and Cultural Preservation Area designated in paragraph (4)(C)—“(A) the Tribe may establish and maintain a tribal resource management field office, garage, and storage area, all within the area of the existing ranger station at Wildrose (existing as of the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 1, 2000]);

“(B) the Tribe also may use traditional camps for tribal members at Wildrose and Hunter Mountain in accordance with the jointly established management plan referred to in paragraph (1);

“(C) the area shall be depicted on maps of the Park and Bureau of Land Management that are provided for general visitor use;

“(D) the National Park Service and the Bureau of Land Management shall accommodate access by the Tribe to and use by the Tribe of—“(i) the area (including portions described in subparagraph (E)) for traditional cultural and religious activities, in a manner consistent with the purpose and intent of Public Law 95–341 (commonly known as the ‘American Indian Religious Freedom Act’) (42 U.S.C. 1996 et seq.); and

“(ii) areas designated as wilderness (including portions described in subparagraph (E)), in a manner consistent with the purpose and intent of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and


“(E)(i) on the request of the Tribe, the National Park Service and the Bureau of Land Management shall temporarily close to the general public, 1 or more specific portions of the area in order to protect the privacy of tribal members engaging in traditional cultural and religious activities in those portions; and

“(ii) any such closure shall be made in a manner that affects the smallest practicable area for the minimum period necessary for the purposes described in clause (i).




“(f) Access and Use.—Members of the Tribe shall have the right to enter and use the Park without payment of any fee for admission into the Park.

“(g) Administration.—The trust lands shall constitute the Timbisha Shoshone Reservation and shall be administered pursuant to the laws and regulations applicable to other Indian trust lands, except as otherwise provided in this Act.

