§ 707. Payment upon disapproval of certain court-martial sentences for excess leave required to be taken(a) A member—(1) who is required to take leave under section 876a of this title, any period of which is charged as excess leave under section 706(a) of this title; and

(2) whose sentence by court-martial to a dismissal or a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge is set aside or disapproved by a Court of Criminal Appeals under section 866 of this title or by the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces under section 867 of this title,


shall be paid, as provided in subsection (b), for the period of leave charged as excess leave, unless a rehearing or new trial is ordered and a dismissal or a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge is included in the result of the rehearing or new trial and such dismissal or discharge is later executed.

(b)(1) A member entitled to be paid under this section shall be deemed, for purposes of this section, to have accrued pay and allowances for each day of leave required to be taken under section 876a of this title that is charged as excess leave (except any day of accrued leave for which the member has been paid under section 706(b)(1) of this title and which has been charged as excess leave). If the pay grade of the member was reduced to a lower grade as a result of the court-martial sentence (including any reduction in pay grade under section 858a of this title) and such reduction has not been set aside, disapproved, or otherwise vacated, pay and allowances to be paid under this section shall be deemed to have accrued in such lower grade. Otherwise, such pay and allowances shall be deemed to have accrued in the pay grade held by the member on the day before the day on which his court-martial sentence was approved by the convening authority.

(2) Such a member shall be paid the amount of pay and allowances that he is deemed to have accrued, reduced by the total amount of his income from wages, salaries, tips, other personal service income, unemployment compensation, and public assistance benefits from any Government agency during the period he is deemed to have accrued pay and allowances. Except as provided in paragraph (3), such payment shall be made as follows:(A) Payment shall be made within 60 days from the date of the order setting aside or disapproving the sentence by court-martial to a dismissal or a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge if no rehearing or new trial has been ordered.

(B) Payment shall be made within 180 days from the date of the order setting aside or disapproving the sentence by court-martial to a dismissal or a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge if a rehearing or new trial has been ordered but charges have not been referred to a rehearing or new trial within 120 days from the date of that order.

(C) If a rehearing or new trial has been ordered and a dismissal or a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge is not included in the result of such rehearing or new trial, payment shall be made within 60 days of the date of the announcement of the result of such rehearing or new trial.

(D) If a rehearing or new trial has been ordered and a dismissal or a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge is included in the result of such rehearing or new trial, but such dismissal or discharge is not later executed, payment shall be made within 60 days of the date of the order which set aside, disapproved, or otherwise vacated such dismissal or discharge.


(3) If a member is entitled to be paid under this section but fails to provide sufficient information in a timely manner regarding his income when such information is requested under regulations prescribed under subsection (c), the periods of time prescribed in paragraph (2) shall be extended until 30 days after the date on which the member provides the information requested.


(c) This section shall be administered under uniform regulations prescribed by the Secretaries concerned. Such regulations may provide for the method of determining a member’s income during any period the member is deemed to have accrued pay and allowances, including a requirement that the member provide income tax returns and other documentation to verify the amount of his income.

(Added Pub. L. 97–81, § 2(b)(1), Nov. 20, 1981, 95 Stat. 1086; amended Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title IX, § 924(c)(1), (2), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2831.)

Amendments1994—Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 103–337 substituted “Court of Criminal Appeals” for “Court of Military Review” and “Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces” for “Court of Military Appeals”.

Effective DateSection to take effect at end of 60-day period beginning on Nov. 20, 1981, to apply to each member whose sentence by court-martial is approved on or after Jan. 20, 1982, under section 864 or 865 of this title by officer exercising general court-martial jurisdiction under provisions of such section as it existed on day before effective date of Military Justice Act of 1983 (Pub. L. 98–209), or under section 860 of this title by officer empowered to act on sentence on or after that effective date, see section 7(a), (b)(1) of Pub. L. 97–81, set out as a note under section 706 of this title.


