§ 460aaa–7. Grand Island Advisory Commission(a) EstablishmentSubject to appointments as provided in subsection (b) of this section, there is established a Grand Island Advisory Commission (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Commission”) comprised of 12 members for the purpose of advising the Secretary on the preparation of the management plan which is provided for in section 460aaa–6 of this title.


(b) Appointment(1) Commission members shall be appointed by the Secretary as follows:(A) Three non-voting members, who shall be employees of the Forest Service including the Forest Supervisor of the Hiawatha National Forest.

(B) One member who shall be a resident of Munising, Michigan, who is not a Forest Service employee.

(C) Two members who shall be recreational users of Grand Island who are not Forest Service employees.

(D) One member from nominations made by the Alger County Board of Commissioners who is a member of such board.

(E) One member from nominations made by the Alger County Economic Development Corporation who is a member of such corporation.

(F) One member from nominations made by the Grand Island Association who is a member of such association.

(G) One member from nominations made by the private landowners of Grand Island who is a private landowner on Grand Island.

(H) One member from nominations made by the Grand Island Township Board who is a member of such board.

(I) The Munising city manager, upon accepting the invitation of the Secretary.


(2) Any vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.


(c) QuorumA quorum shall be six members. The operations of the Commission shall not be impaired by the fact that a member has not been appointed as long as a quorum has been attained.


(d) ProceduresThe Commission shall elect a Chairman and establish such rules and procedures as it deems necessary or desirable.


(e) ConsultationThe Secretary shall consult with the Commission on a periodic and regular basis with respect to the management plan.


(f) Pay(1) Members of the Commission who are not full-time officers or employees of the United States shall serve without pay.

(2) Members of the Commission who are full-time officers or employees of the United States shall receive no additional pay by reason of their service on the Commission.


(g) Proposals for non-Federal development on Federal landThe Commission shall recommend proposals for non-Federal development on the 55 acres described in section 460aaa–6(b)(2) of this title. It shall submit any such proposals to the Secretary for approval, rejection, or revision. The Secretary shall include in the management plan a development proposal submitted by the Commission or arrived at by any other means available to the Secretary.


(h) TerminationThe Commission shall cease to exist on the date upon which the management plan is adopted.


(Pub. L. 101–292, § 8, May 17, 1990, 104 Stat. 189.)

Termination of Advisory CommissionsAdvisory commissions established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a commission established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such commission is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a commission established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 3(2) and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


