“Sec. 7. [Availability of Funds]. (a) There is hereby made available out of the proceeds of sales made pursuant to section 3 of this Act an amount not to exceed $130,000 for expenditure, directly or through the local units of government involved, for work in connection with the disposal of sewage in the immediate vicinity of the town of Coulee Dam and the city of Grand Coulee, including betterment work on the existing open drain along the north side of the highway through the city of Grand Coulee. Of this amount the Secretary shall pay not more than $100,000 to Grand Coulee and not more than $30,000 to the municipality. Except to the extent that any expenditures have been made directly as provided in the preceding sentence, the Secretary shall, upon application, pay to Grand Coulee the amount of $10,000 and to the municipality the amount of $3,000 for engineering surveys and drafting of specifications for proposed construction and/or improvement of sewage disposal and drainage facilities. After final drawings and specifications have been approved by the Secretary and the construction contracts have been entered into, the Secretary shall pay monthly to Grand Coulee and to the municipality additional amounts equivalent to earnings under their contracts as evidenced by construction progress reports certified by their contractors and by Grand Coulee and the municipality, but not to exceed a total of $90,000 for the former and $27,000 for the latter.“(b) Subject to the provisions of subsection 9(a) of this Act, the following amounts shall be made available, out of the proceeds of sales made pursuant to section 3 of this Act, to the municipality if incorporated within four years from the date of this Act [Aug. 30, 1957]: (1) On incorporation, $44,000; (2) at the end of one year after incorporation, $21,000; and (3) at the end of two years after incorporation, $15,000.

“(c) The Secretary is hereby authorized to make available as herein provided, as power and energy reserved for the operation and maintenance of the Columbia Basin project, for users in the town area and, to other communities within three and one-half miles of Grand Coulee Dam which are served by municipally owned distribution systems such amount of power and energy as, in his judgment, is needed to meet load requirements for space-heating purposes existing at the time of incorporation of the municipality. Such power and energy may be made available directly to the users or indirectly through distributing agencies, for a period of ten years from the date of this Act [Aug. 30, 1957] and may be at such special rates as the Secretary finds to be proper but at not less than cost.

