§ 3267. Definitions
As used in this chapter:(1) The term “employed by the Armed Forces outside the United States” means—(A) employed as—(i) a civilian employee of—(I) the Department of Defense (including a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department); or

(II) any other Federal agency, or any provisional authority, to the extent such employment relates to supporting the mission of the Department of Defense overseas;


(ii) a contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) of—(I) the Department of Defense (including a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department); or

(II) any other Federal agency, or any provisional authority, to the extent such employment relates to supporting the mission of the Department of Defense overseas; or


(iii) an employee of a contractor (or subcontractor at any tier) of—(I) the Department of Defense (including a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department); or

(II) any other Federal agency, or any provisional authority, to the extent such employment relates to supporting the mission of the Department of Defense overseas;



(B) present or residing outside the United States in connection with such employment; and

(C) not a national of or ordinarily resident in the host nation.


(2) The term “accompanying the Armed Forces outside the United States” means—(A) a dependent of—(i) a member of the Armed Forces;

(ii) a civilian employee of the Department of Defense (including a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department); or

(iii) a Department of Defense contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier) or an employee of a Department of Defense contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier);


(B) residing with such member, civilian employee, contractor, or contractor employee outside the United States; and

(C) not a national of or ordinarily resident in the host nation.


(3) The term “Armed Forces” has the meaning given the term “armed forces” in section 101(a)(4) of title 10.

(4) The terms “Judge Advocate General” and “judge advocate” have the meanings given such terms in section 801 of title 10.

(Added Pub. L. 106–523, § 2(a), Nov. 22, 2000, 114 Stat. 2491; amended Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title X, § 1088, Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 2066.)

Amendments2004—Par. (1)(A). Pub. L. 108–375 amended subpar. (A) generally. Prior to amendment, subpar. (A) read as follows: “employed as a civilian employee of the Department of Defense (including a nonappropriated fund instrumentality of the Department), as a Department of Defense contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier), or as an employee of a Department of Defense contractor (including a subcontractor at any tier);”.


