“SEC. 503. AUTHORIZATION FOR CONVEYANCE OF FOREST SERVICE ADMINISTRATIVE SITES.“(a) Conveyances Authorized.—In the manner provided by this title, the Secretary may convey an administrative site, or an interest in an administrative site, that is under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.

“(b) Means of Conveyance.—The conveyance of an administrative site under this title may be made—“(1) by sale;

“(2) by lease;

“(3) by exchange;

“(4) by a combination of sale and exchange; or

“(5) by such other means as the Secretary considers appropriate.


“(c) Size of Conveyance.—An administrative site or compound of administrative sites disposed of in a single conveyance under this title may not exceed 40 acres.

“(d) Certain Lands Excluded.—The following Federal land may not be conveyed under this title:“(1) Any land within a unit of the National Forest System that is exclusively designated for natural area or recreational purposes.

“(2) Any land included within the National Wilderness Preservation System, the Wild and Scenic River System, or a National Monument.

“(3) Any land that the Secretary determines—“(A) is needed for resource management purposes or to provide access to other land or water;

“(B) is surrounded by National Forest System land or other publicly owned land, if conveyance would not be in the public interest due to the creation of a non-Federal inholding that would preclude the efficient management of the surrounding land; or

“(C) would be in the public interest to retain.



“(e) Congressional Notifications.—“(1) Notice of anticipated use of authority.—As part of the annual budget justification documents provided to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Secretary shall include—“(A) a list of the anticipated conveyances to be made, including the anticipated revenue that may be obtained, using the authority provided by this title or other conveyance authorities available to the Secretary;

“(B) a discussion of the intended purposes of any new revenue obtained using this authority or other conveyance authorities available to the Secretary, and a list of any individual projects that exceed $500,000; and

“(C) a presentation of accomplishments of previous years using this authority or other conveyance authorities available to the Secretary.


“(2) Notice of changes to conveyance list.—If the Secretary proposes to convey an administrative site under this title or using other conveyance authorities available to the Secretary and the administrative site is not included on a list provided under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional committees specified in paragraph (3) written notice of the proposed conveyance, including the anticipated revenue that may be obtained from the conveyance.

“(3) Notice of use of authority.—At least once a year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Resources [now Committee on Natural Resources] of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report containing a description of all conveyances of National Forest System land made by the Secretary under this title or other conveyance authorities during the period covered by the report.


“(f) Duration of Authority.—The authority of the Secretary to initiate the conveyance of an administrative site under this title expires on September 30, 2016.

“(g) Repeal of Pilot Conveyance Authority.—Effective September 30, 2006, section 329 of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2002 (16 U.S.C. 580d note; Public Law 107–63), is repealed. Notwithstanding the repeal of such section, the Secretary may complete the conveyance under such section of any administrative site whose conveyance was initiated under such section before that date.

