“SECTION 1. FINDINGS.“Congress finds as follows:“(1) Ukraine allows its citizens the right and opportunity to emigrate, free of any heavy tax on emigration or on the visas or other documents required for emigration and free of any tax, levy, fine, fee, or other charge on any citizens as a consequence of the desire of such citizens to emigrate to the country of their choice.

“(2) Ukraine has received normal trade relations treatment since 1992 and has been found to be in full compliance with the freedom of emigration requirements under title IV of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2431 et seq.] since 1997.

“(3) Since the establishment of an independent Ukraine in 1991, Ukraine has made substantial progress toward the creation of democratic institutions and a free-market economy.

“(4) Ukraine has committed itself to ensuring freedom of religion, respect for rights of minorities, and eliminating intolerance and has been a paragon of inter-ethnic cooperation and harmony, as evidenced by the annual human rights reports of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the United States Department of State.

“(5) Ukraine has taken major steps toward global security by ratifying the Treaty on the Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Weapons (START I) and the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, subsequently turning over the last of its Soviet-era nuclear warheads on June 1, 1996, and agreeing, in 1998, not to assist Iran with the completion of a program to develop and build nuclear breeding reactors, and has fully supported the United States in nullifying the Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty.

“(6) At the Madrid Summit in 1997, Ukraine became a member of the North Atlantic Cooperation Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and has been a participant in the Partnership for Peace (PfP) program since 1994.

“(7) Ukraine is a peaceful state which established exemplary relations with all neighboring countries, and consistently pursues a course of European integration with a commitment to ensuring democracy and prosperity for its citizens.

“(8) Ukraine has built a broad and durable relationship with the United States and has been an unwavering ally in the struggle against international terrorism that has taken place since the attacks against the United States that occurred on September 11, 2001.

“(9) Ukraine has concluded a bilateral trade agreement with the United States that entered into force on June 23, 1992, and is in the process of acceding to the World Trade Organization (WTO). On March 6, 2006, the United States and Ukraine signed a bilateral market access agreement as a part of the WTO accession process.

