§ 1650. Hardwood technology transfer and applied research(a) Authority of SecretaryThe Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter the “Secretary”) is hereby and hereafter authorized to conduct technology transfer and development, training, dissemination of information and applied research in the management, processing and utilization of the hardwood forest resource. This authority is in addition to any other authorities which may be available to the Secretary including, but not limited to, the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978, as amended (16 U.S.C. 2101 et seq.), and the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Act of 1978, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1600–1614).11 So in original.


(b) Grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements; gifts and donationsIn carrying out this authority, the Secretary may enter into grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements with public and private agencies, organizations, corporations, institutions and individuals. The Secretary may accept gifts and donations pursuant to section 2269 of title 7 including gifts and donations from a donor that conducts business with any agency of the Department of Agriculture or is regulated by the Secretary of Agriculture.


(c) Use of assets of Wood Education and Resource Center; establishment of Institute of Hardwood Technology Transfer and Applied ResearchThe Secretary is hereby and hereafter authorized to operate and utilize the assets of the Wood Education and Resource Center (previously named the Robert C. Byrd Hardwood Technology Center in West Virginia) as part of a newly formed “Institute of Hardwood Technology Transfer and Applied Research” (hereinafter the “Institute”). The Institute, in addition to the Wood Education and Resource Center, will consist of a Director, technology transfer specialists from State and Private Forestry, the Forestry Sciences Laboratory in Princeton, West Virginia, and any other organizational unit of the Department of Agriculture as the Secretary deems appropriate. The overall management of the Institute will be the responsibility of the Forest Service, State and Private Forestry.


(d) Generation of revenue; deposit into Hardwood Technology Transfer and Applied Research FundThe Secretary is hereby and hereafter authorized to generate revenue using the authorities provided herein. Any revenue received as part of the operation of the Institute shall be deposited into a special fund in the Treasury of the United States, known as the “Hardwood Technology Transfer and Applied Research Fund”, which shall be available to the Secretary until expended, without further appropriation, in furtherance of the purposes of this section, including upkeep, management, and operation of the Institute and the payment of salaries and expenses.


(e) Authorization of appropriationsThere are hereby and hereafter authorized to be appropriated such sums as necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.


(Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(3) [title III, § 332], Nov. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 1535, 1501A–197.)


References in TextThe Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 95–313, July 1, 1978, 92 Stat. 365, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 41 (§ 2101 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2101 of this title and Tables.

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000, and not as part of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Research Act of 1978 which comprises this subchapter.

Hardwood Technology Transfer and Applied ResearchPub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(e) [title III, § 343], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–231, 2681–297, provided that:
“(a) The Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter the ‘Secretary’) is hereby authorized to conduct technology transfer and development, training, dissemination of information and applied research in the management, processing and utilization of the hardwood forest resource. This authority is in addition to any other authorities which may be available to the Secretary including, but not limited to, the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978, as amended (16 U.S.C. 2101 et. seq.), and the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Act of 1978, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1600–1614).

“(b) In carrying out this authority, the Secretary may enter into grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements with public and private agencies, organizations, corporations, institutions and individuals. The Secretary may accept gifts and donations pursuant to the Act of October 10, 1978 (7 U.S.C. 2269) including gifts and donations from a donor that conducts business with any agency of the Department of Agriculture or is regulated by the Secretary of Agriculture.

“(c) The Secretary is authorized, on such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, to assume all rights, title, and interest, including all outstanding assets, of the Robert C. Byrd Hardwood Technology Center, Inc. (hereinafter the ‘Center’), a non-profit corporation existing under the laws of the State of West Virginia: Provided, That the Board of Directors of the Center requests such an action and dissolves the corporation consistent with the Articles of Incorporation and the laws of the State of West Virginia.

“(d) The Secretary is authorized to operate and utilize the assets of the Center as part of a newly formed ‘Institute of Hardwood Technology Transfer and Applied Research’ (hereinafter the ‘Institute’). The Institute, in addition to the Center, will consist of a Director, technology transfer specialists from State and Private Forestry, the Forestry Sciences Laboratory in Princeton, West Virginia, and any other organizational unit of the Department of Agriculture as the Secretary deems appropriate. The overall management of the Institute will be the responsibility of the USDA Forest Service, State and Private Forestry.

“(e) The Secretary is authorized to generate revenue using the authorities provided herein. Any revenue received as part of the operation of the Institute shall be deposited into a special fund in the Treasury of the United States, known as the ‘Hardwood Technology Transfer and Applied Research Fund’, which shall be available to the Secretary until expended, without further appropriation, in furtherance of the purposes of this section, including upkeep, management, and operation of the Institute and the payment of salaries and expenses.

“(f) There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.”





