“SEC. 406. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE SECRETARIAT, THE PANELS, AND THE COMMITTEES.“(a) The Secretariat.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the department or agency within which the United States Secretariat described in chapter 19 of the Agreement is established the lesser of—“(1) such sums as may be necessary, or

“(2) $5,000,000,


for each fiscal year succeeding fiscal year 1988 for the establishment and operations of such United States Secretariat and for the payment of the United States share of the expenses of the dispute settlement proceedings under chapter 18 of the Agreement.

“(b) Panels and Committees.—“(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Office of the United States Trade Representative for fiscal year 1990, $1,492,000 to pay during such fiscal year the United States share of the expenses of binational panels and extraordinary challenge committees convened pursuant to chapter 19 of the Agreement.

“(2) The United States Trade Representative is authorized to transfer to any department or agency of the United States, from sums appropriated pursuant to the authorization provided under paragraph (1) or section 141(g)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2171(g)(1)], such funds as may be necessary to facilitate the payment of the expenses described in paragraph (1).

“(3) Funds appropriated for the payment of expenses described in paragraph (1) during any fiscal year may be expended only to the extent such funds do not exceed the amount authorized to be appropriated under paragraph (1) for such fiscal year. This paragraph shall apply, notwithstanding any law enacted after the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 28, 1988], unless such subsequent law specifically provides that this paragraph shall not apply and specifically cites this paragraph.

“(4) If the Canadian Secretariat described in chapter 19 of the Agreement provides funds during any fiscal year for the purpose of paying, in accordance with Annex 1901.2 of the Agreement, the Canadian share of the expenses of binational panels, the United States Secretariat established under section 405(e)(1) may hereafter retain and use such funds for such purposes.


