§ 9319. Recruit basic training: separate housing for male and female recruits(a) Physically Separate Housing.—(1) The Secretary of the Air Force shall provide for housing male recruits and female recruits separately and securely from each other during basic training.

(2) To meet the requirements of paragraph (1), the sleeping areas and latrine areas provided for male recruits shall be physically separated from the sleeping areas and latrine areas provided for female recruits by permanent walls, and the areas for male recruits and the areas for female recruits shall have separate entrances.

(3) The Secretary shall ensure that, when a recruit is in an area referred to in paragraph (2), the area is supervised by one or more persons who are authorized and trained to supervise the area.


(b) Alternative Separate Housing.—If male recruits and female recruits cannot be housed as provided under subsection (a) by October 1, 2001, at a particular installation, the Secretary of the Air Force shall require (on and after that date) that male recruits in basic training at such installation be housed in barracks or other troop housing facilities that are only for males and that female recruits in basic training at such installation be housed in barracks or other troop housing facilities that are only for females.

(c) Construction Planning.—In planning for the construction of housing to be used for housing recruits during basic training, the Secretary of the Air Force shall ensure that the housing is to be constructed in a manner that facilitates the housing of male recruits and female recruits separately and securely from each other.

(d) Basic Training Defined.—In this section, the term “basic training” means the initial entry training program of the Air Force that constitutes the basic training of new recruits.

(Added Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title V, § 521(c)(1), Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2011.)

ImplementationPub. L. 105–261, div. A, title V, § 521(c)(3), Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2012, provided that: “The Secretary of the Air Force shall implement section 9319 of title 10, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), as rapidly as feasible and shall ensure that the provisions of that section are applied to all recruit basic training classes beginning not later than the first such class that enters basic training on or after April 15, 1999.”



