§ 410nn–1. Administration(a) In generalThe Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with this subchapter and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, sections 461 to 467 of this title, and the National Historic Preservation Act [16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.]. The Secretary shall manage the park in such manner as will preserve and perpetuate knowledge and understanding of American maritime history and to provide for public understanding and enjoyment of maritime history.


(b) DonationsThe Secretary may accept and retain donations of funds, property, or services from individuals, foundations, corporations, or public entities for the purpose of providing services and facilities which he deems consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.


(c) LeasingThe Secretary may lease any real or personal property, including vessels and heavy marine equipment such as floating drydocks, which is administered as part of the park. The net receipts from any such lease shall be credited in accordance with section 460bb–3(f) of this title.


(d) FeesNotwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may impose entrance fees for admission to the ships in such amounts as he deems appropriate and may impose fees for the use by groups or organizations of the ships. All receipts from such fees shall be credited in accordance with section 460bb–3(f) of this title.


(e) General management planWithin 2 years after establishment of the park, the Secretary shall prepare and transmit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate a general management plan for the park. The plan shall include, but not be limited to:(1) a description of the resources of the park including, but not limited to, maritime and associated artifacts, documents, the following historic vessels: the sailing ship Balclutha; the steam schooner Wapama; the steamship SS Jeremiah O’Brien; the ferry Eureka; the schooner C.A. Thayer; the tug Ellpleton Hall; the tug Hercules; and the scow schooner Alma, and other real and personal property comprising the park collections such as written and illustrative material, objects, wrecks, small watercraft, and vessels;

(2) plans for the preservation of each historic vessel, including docking facilities, maintenance and ship repair facilities, and estimates for the costs thereof; a determination of the need for permanent docking facilities in a location best suited to the preservation of the historic vessels and for visitor access to the historic vessels; methods of accommodating visitors while protecting the historic vessels; and methods for providing for the proper care, exhibition, and storage of the park collections;

(3) plans for the location, preliminary design, and estimated cost of public facilities to be developed for the park, including a museum building, visitor parking, and public transit access; and

(4) Plans 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. for the interpretation of the historic vessels and park collections.


(Pub. L. 100–348, § 3, June 27, 1988, 102 Stat. 655.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 100–348, June 27, 1988, 102 Stat. 654, known as the San Francisco Maritime National Historical Park Act of 1988, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 410nn of this title and Tables.
The National Historic Preservation Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 89–665, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 470 et seq.) of chapter 1A of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 470(a) of this title and Tables.


Change of Name
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.


