§ 1831o–1. Source of strength(a) Holding companiesThe appropriate Federal banking agency for a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company shall require the bank holding company or savings and loan holding company to serve as a source of financial strength for any subsidiary of the bank holding company or savings and loan holding company that is a depository institution.


(b) Other companiesIf an insured depository institution is not the subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, the appropriate Federal banking agency for the insured depository institution shall require any company that directly or indirectly controls the insured depository institution to serve as a source of financial strength for such institution.


(c) ReportsThe appropriate Federal banking agency for an insured depository institution described in subsection (b) may, from time to time, require the company, or a company that directly or indirectly controls the insured depository institution, to submit a report, under oath, for the purposes of—(1) assessing the ability of such company to comply with the requirement under subsection (b); and

(2) enforcing the compliance of such company with the requirement under subsection (b).


(d) RulesNot later than 1 year after the transfer date, as defined in section 5411 of this title, the appropriate Federal banking agencies shall jointly issue final rules to carry out this section.


(e) DefinitionIn this section, the term “source of financial strength” means the ability of a company that directly or indirectly owns or controls an insured depository institution to provide financial assistance to such insured depository institution in the event of the financial distress of the insured depository institution.


(Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 967, § 2[38A], as added Pub. L. 111–203, title VI, § 616(d), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1616.)

Effective DateSection effective on the transfer date, see section 616(e) of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as an Effective Date of 2010 Amendment note under section 1467a of this title.


