§ 90c–1. Administration of recreation areas(a) Statement of purposes; utilization of authorities for administration of national park system and for conservation and management of natural resourcesThe Secretary shall administer the recreation areas in a manner which in his judgment will best provide for (1) public outdoor recreation benefits and (2) conservation of scenic, scientific, historic, and other values contributing to public enjoyment. Within that portion of the Lake Chelan National Recreation Area which is not designated as wilderness, such management, utilization, and disposal of renewable natural resources and the continuation of existing uses and developments as will promote, or are compatible with, or do not significantly impair public recreation and conservation of the scenic, scientific, historic, or other values contributing to public enjoyment, are authorized. In administering the recreation areas, the Secretary may utilize such statutory authorities pertaining to the administration of the national park system, and such statutory authorities otherwise available to him for the conservation and management of natural resources as he deems appropriate for recreation and preservation purposes and for resource development compatible therewith. Within the Ross Lake National Recreation Area the removal and disposal of trees within power line rights-of-way are authorized as necessary to protect transmission lines, towers, and equipment;”: 11 So in original. Provided, That to the extent practicable, such removal and disposal of trees shall be conducted in such a manner as to protect scenic viewsheds.


(b) Lands withdrawn from location, entry, and patent under mining laws; removal of mineralsThe lands within the recreation areas, subject to valid existing rights, are hereby withdrawn from all forms of appropriation or disposal under the public land laws, including location, entry, and patent under the United States mining laws, and disposition under the United States mineral leasing laws: Provided, however, That within that portion of the Lake Chelan National Recreation Area which is not designated as wilderness, sand, rock and gravel may be made available for sale to the residents of Stehekin for local use so long as such sale and disposal does not have significant adverse effects on the administration of the Lake Chelan National Recreation Area.


(c) Receipts, dispositionAll receipts derived from permits and leases issued on lands or interests in lands within the recreation areas under the Mineral Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, as amended [30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.], or the Acquired Lands Mineral Leasing Act of August 7, 1947 [30 U.S.C. 351 et seq.], shall be disposed of as provided in the applicable Act; and receipts from the disposition of nonleasable minerals within the recreation areas shall be disposed of in the same manner as moneys received from the sale of public lands.


(d) Hunting and fishingThe Secretary shall permit hunting and fishing on lands and waters under his jurisdiction within the boundaries of the recreation areas in accordance with applicable laws of the United States and of the State of Washington, except that the Secretary may designate zones where, and establish periods when, no hunting or fishing shall be permitted for reasons of public safety, administration, fish and wildlife management, or public use and enjoyment. Except in emergencies, any regulations of the Secretary pursuant to this section shall be put into effect only after consultation with the Department of Game of the State of Washington.


(e) Road construction or use restrictionsThe Secretary shall not permit the construction or use of any road within the park which would provide vehicular access from the North Cross State Highway to the Stehekin Road. Neither shall he permit the construction or use of any permanent road which would provide vehicular access between May Creek and Hozomeen along the east side of Ross Lake.


(Pub. L. 90–544, title IV, § 402, Oct. 2, 1968, 82 Stat. 928; Pub. L. 100–668, title II, §§ 205, 206, Nov. 16, 1988, 102 Stat. 3964.)


References in TextThe Mineral Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, as amended, referred to in subsec. (c), is act Feb. 25, 1920, ch. 85, 41 Stat. 437, as amended, known as the Mineral Leasing Act, which is classified generally to chapter 3A (§ 181 et seq.) of Title 30. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 181 of Title 30 and Tables.
The Acquired Lands Mineral Leasing Act of August 7, 1947, referred to in subsec. (c), is act Aug. 7, 1947, ch. 513, 61 Stat. 913, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 7 (§ 351 et seq.) of Title 30. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 351 of Title 30 and Tables.

Amendments1988—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 100–668, § 205, amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (a) read as follows: “The Secretary shall administer the recreation areas in a manner which in his judgment will best provide for (1) public outdoor recreation benefits; (2) conservation of scenic, scientific, historic, and other values contributing to public enjoyment; and (3) such management, utilization, and disposal of renewable natural resources and the continuation of such existing uses and developments as will promote or are compatible with, or do not significantly impair, public recreation and conservation of the scenic, scientific, historic, or other values contributing to public enjoyment. In administering the recreation areas, the Secretary may utilize such statutory authorities pertaining to the administration of the national park system, and such statutory authorities otherwise available to him for the conservation and management of natural resources as he deems appropriate for recreation and preservation purposes and for resource development compatible therewith.”
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 100–668, § 206, amended subsec. (b) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (b) read as follows: “The lands within the recreation areas, subject to valid existing rights, are hereby withdrawn from location, entry, and patent under the United States mining laws. The Secretary, under such reasonable regulations as he deems appropriate, may permit the removal of the nonleasable minerals from lands or interest in lands within the recreation areas in the manner prescribed by section 387 of title 43, and he may permit the removal of leasable minerals from lands or interests in lands within the recreation areas in accordance with the Mineral Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, as amended, or the Acquired Lands Mineral Leasing Act of August 7, 1947, if he finds that such disposition would not have significant adverse effects on the administration of the recreation areas.”


