§ 4724. State aquatic nuisance species management plans(a) State or interstate invasive species management plans(1) In generalAfter providing notice and opportunity for public comment, the Governor of each State may prepare and submit, or the Governors of the States and the governments of the Indian tribes involved in an interstate organization, may jointly prepare and submit—(A) a comprehensive management plan to the Task Force for approval which identifies those areas or activities within the State or within the interstate region involved, other than those related to public facilities, for which technical, enforcement, or financial assistance (or any combination thereof) is needed to eliminate or reduce the environmental, public health, and safety risks associated with aquatic nuisance species, particularly the zebra mussel; and

(B) a public facility management plan to the Assistant Secretary for approval which is limited solely to identifying those public facilities within the State or within the interstate region involved for which technical and financial assistance is needed to reduce infestations of zebra mussels.


(2) ContentEach plan shall, to the extent possible, identify the management practices and measures that will be undertaken to reduce infestations of aquatic nuisance species. Each plan shall—(A) identify and describe State and local programs for environmentally sound prevention and control of the target aquatic nuisance species;

(B) identify Federal activities that may be needed for environmentally sound prevention and control of aquatic nuisance species and a description of the manner in which those activities should be coordinated with State and local government activities;

(C) identify any authority that the State (or any State or Indian tribe involved in the interstate organization) does not have at the time of the development of the plan that may be necessary for the State (or any State or Indian tribe involved in the interstate organization) to protect public health, property, and the environment from harm by aquatic nuisance species; and

(D) a schedule of implementing the plan, including a schedule of annual objectives, and enabling legislation.


(3) Consultation(A) In developing and implementing a management plan, the State or interstate organization should, to the maximum extent practicable, involve local governments and regional entities, Indian tribes, and public and private organizations that have expertise in the control of aquatic nuisance species.

(B) Upon the request of a State or the appropriate official of an interstate organization, the Task Force or the Assistant Secretary, as appropriate under paragraph (1), may provide technical assistance in developing and implementing a management plan.


(4) Plan approvalWithin 90 days after the submission of a management plan, the Task Force or the Assistant Secretary in consultation with the Task Force, as appropriate under paragraph (1), shall review the proposed plan and approve it if it meets the requirements of this subsection or return the plan to the Governor or the interstate organization with recommended modifications.



(b) Grant program(1) State grantsThe Director may, at the recommendation of the Task Force, make grants to States with management plans approved under subsection (a) of this section for the implementation of those plans.


(2) ApplicationAn application for a grant under this subsection shall include an identification and description of the best management practices and measures which the State proposes to utilize in implementing an approved management plan with any Federal assistance to be provided under the grant.


(3) Federal share(A) The Federal share of the cost of each comprehensive management plan implemented with Federal assistance under this section in any fiscal year shall not exceed 75 percent of the cost incurred by the State in implementing such management program and the non-Federal share of such costs shall be provided from non-Federal sources.

(B) The Federal share of the cost of each public facility management plan implemented with Federal assistance under this section in any fiscal year shall not exceed 50 percent of the cost incurred by the State in implementing such management program and the non-Federal share of such costs shall be provided from non-Federal sources.


(4) Adminisrative 11 So in original. Probably should be “Administrative”. costsFor the purposes of this section, administrative costs for activities and programs carried out with a grant in any fiscal year shall not exceed 5 percent of the amount of the grant in that year.


(5) In-kind contributionsIn addition to cash outlays and payments, in-kind contributions of property or personnel services by non-Federal interests for activities under this section may be used for the non-Federal share of the cost of those activities.



(c) Enforcement assistanceUpon request of a State or Indian tribe, the Director or the Under Secretary, to the extent allowable by law and in a manner consistent with section 141 of title 14, may provide assistance to a State or Indian tribe in enforcing an approved State or interstate invasive species management plan.


(Pub. L. 101–646, title I, § 1204, Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 4770; Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6), (h)(1), Oct. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 4089, 4091.)

Amendments1996—Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(h)(1), made technical amendment to Pub. L. 101–646, § 1204, which enacted this section.
Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(A)(i), substituted “State or interstate invasive species management plans” for “State plan” in heading.
Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(A)(ii)(I), substituted “After providing notice and opportunity for public comment, the Governor of each State may prepare and submit, or the Governors of the States and the governments of the Indian tribes involved in an interstate organization, may jointly prepare and submit” for “The Governor of each State may, after notice and opportunity for public comment, prepare and submit” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (a)(1)(A). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(A)(ii)(II), (III), inserted “or within the interstate region involved” after “within the State” and substituted “technical, enforcement, or financial assistance (or any combination thereof)” for “technical and financial assistance”.
Subsec. (a)(1)(B). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(A)(ii)(III), inserted “or within the interstate region involved” after “within the State”.
Subsec. (a)(2)(B). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(A)(iii)(I), struck out “and” at end.
Subsec. (a)(2)(C). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(A)(iii)(III), added subpar. (C). Former subpar. (C) redesignated (D).
Subsec. (a)(2)(D). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(A)(iii)(II), (IV), redesignated subpar. (C) as (D) and inserted “, and enabling legislation” before period.
Subsec. (a)(3)(A). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(A)(iv)(I), inserted “or interstate organization” after “the State” and “Indian tribes,” after “local governments and regional entities,”.
Subsec. (a)(3)(B). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(A)(iv)(II), inserted “or the appropriate official of an interstate organization” after “a State”.
Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(A)(v), inserted “or the interstate organization” after “the Governor”.
Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(B), struck out “or the Assistant Secretary, as appropriate under subsection (a) of this section,” after “The Director” and substituted “management plans approved under subsection (a) of this section” for “approved management plans”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 104–332, § 2(e)(6)(C), added subsec. (c).


