§ 460xx–1. Management(a) General authoritiesThe Secretary shall manage the conservation area in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances the riparian area and the aquatic, wildlife, archeological, paleontological, scientific, cultural, educational, and recreational resources of the conservation area. Such management shall be guided by this subchapter and, where not inconsistent with this subchapter, by the provisions of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 [43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.] (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as “FLPMA”).


(b) UsesThe Secretary shall only allow such uses of the conservation area as he finds will further the primary purposes for which the conservation area is established. Except where needed for administrative or emergency purposes, the use of motorized vehicles in the conservation area shall only be allowed on roads specifically designated for such use as part of the management plan prepared pursuant to section 460xx–2 of this title. The Secretary shall have the power to implement such reasonable limits to visitation and use of the conservation area as he finds appropriate for the protection of the resources of the conservation area, including requiring permits for public use, or closing portions of the conservation area to public use.


(c) WithdrawalsSubject to valid existing rights, all Federal lands within the conservation area are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws; from location, entry, and patent under the United States mining laws; and from disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing and all amendments thereto.


(d) Water rightsCongress reserves for the purposes of this reservation, a quantity of water sufficient to fulfill the purposes of the San Pedro Riparian National Conservation Area created by this subchapter. The priority date of such reserve rights shall be November 18, 1988. The Secretary shall file a claim for the quantification of such rights in an appropriate stream adjudication.


(e) EnforcementAny person who violates any provision of this subchapter or any regulation promulgated by the Secretary to implement this subchapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $10,000, or imprisonment for up to one year, or both.


(Pub. L. 100–696, title I, § 102, Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4571.)


References in TextThe Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 94–579, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2743, which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of Title 43 and Tables.


