§ 460rr–2. Administration(a) ObjectivesSubject to valid existing rights, the Pine Ridge National Recreation Area designated by this subchapter shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with the laws, rules, and regulations applicable to the national forests in a manner compatible with the following objectives:(1) the continuation of existing primitive and semiprimitive recreational use in a natural environment;

(2) preservation and protection of forest, aquatic and grassland habitat;

(3) protection and conservation of special areas having uncommon or outstanding wilderness, biological, geological, recreational, cultural, historical or archeological, and scientific, or other values contributing to the public benefit;

(4) the continuation of existing livestock grazing uses;

(5) the control of noxious weeds and insects and prevention of their spreading onto the nearby private and Federal lands; and

(6) the control of fires and prevention of their spreading onto nearby private and Federal lands.


(b) Fire control; Memorandum of AgreementThe Secretary shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with local and State firefighting agencies and individuals to assure the best utilization of the firefighting resources available in the nearby communities for control of fire in the national recreation area.


(c) Hunting, fishing, and trappingThe Secretary shall permit hunting, fishing, and trapping on lands and waters under the Secretary’s jurisdiction within the boundaries of the national recreation area designated by this subchapter in accordance with applicable laws of the United States and the State of Nebraska.


(d) Mining and mineral leasing lawsSubject to valid existing rights, all Federal lands within the national recreation area are hereby withdrawn from location, entry, and patent under the United States mining laws, and from disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing and all amendments thereto.


(e) State responsibilities with respect to wildlife and fish unaffectedNothing in this subchapter shall be construed as affecting the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State of Nebraska with respect to wildlife and fish in the national recreation area.


(f) Comprehensive management planWithin eighteen months after October 20, 1986, the Secretary shall develop and submit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture of the United States House of Representatives and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate a comprehensive management plan for the national recreation area designated by this subchapter.


(g) Public participation in development of management planIn conducting the reviews and preparing the comprehensive management plan required by subsection (d) 11 So in original. Probably should be subsection “(f)”. of this section, the Secretary shall provide for full public participation, and shall consider the views of all interested agencies, organizations, and individuals.


(Pub. L. 99–504, title II, § 203, Oct. 20, 1986, 100 Stat. 1804.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsec. (e), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 99–504, Oct. 20, 1986, 100 Stat. 1802, known as the Nebraska Wilderness Act of 1985, which enacted this subchapter and provisions listed in a table of Wilderness Areas set out under section 1132 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.


Change of Name
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.


