“SEC. 2905. IMPLEMENTATION“(a) In General.—(1) In closing or realigning any military installation under this part, the Secretary may—“(A) take such actions as may be necessary to close or realign any military installation, including the acquisition of such land, the construction of such replacement facilities, the performance of such activities, and the conduct of such advance planning and design as may be required to transfer functions from a military installation being closed or realigned to another military installation, and may use for such purpose funds in the Account or funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for use in planning and design, minor construction, or operation and maintenance;

“(B) provide—“(i) economic adjustment assistance to any community located near a military installation being closed or realigned, and

“(ii) community planning assistance to any community located near a military installation to which functions will be transferred as a result of the closure or realignment of a military installation,


if the Secretary of Defense determines that the financial resources available to the community (by grant or otherwise) for such purposes are inadequate, and may use for such purposes funds in the Account or funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for economic adjustment assistance or community planning assistance;

“(C) carry out activities for the purposes of environmental restoration and mitigation at any such installation, and shall use for such purposes funds in the Account;

“(D) provide outplacement assistance to civilian employees employed by the Department of Defense at military installations being closed or realigned, and may use for such purpose funds in the Account or funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for outplacement assistance to employees; and

“(E) reimburse other Federal agencies for actions performed at the request of the Secretary with respect to any such closure or realignment, and may use for such purpose funds in the Account or funds appropriated to the Department of Defense and available for such purpose.


“(2) In carrying out any closure or realignment under this part, the Secretary shall ensure that environmental restoration of any property made excess to the needs of the Department of Defense as a result of such closure or realignment be carried out as soon as possible with funds available for such purpose.


“(b) Management and Disposal of Property.—(1) The Administrator of General Services shall delegate to the Secretary of Defense, with respect to excess and surplus real property, facilities, and personal property located at a military installation closed or realigned under this part—“(A) the authority of the Administrator to utilize excess property under subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 40, United States Code;

“(B) the authority of the Administrator to dispose of surplus property under subchapter III of chapter 5 of title 40, United States Code;

“(C) the authority to dispose of surplus property for public airports under sections 47151 through 47153 of title 49, United States Code; and

“(D) the authority of the Administrator to determine the availability of excess or surplus real property for wildlife conservation purposes in accordance with the Act of May 19, 1948 (16 U.S.C. 667b).


“(2)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B) and paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6), the Secretary of Defense shall exercise the authority delegated to the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (1) in accordance with—“(i) all regulations governing the utilization of excess property and the disposal of surplus property under the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 [see chapters 1 to 11 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works and division C (except sections 3302, 3306(f), 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4104, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of Title 41, Public Contracts]; and

“(ii) all regulations governing the conveyance and disposal of property under section 13(g) of the Surplus Property Act of 1944 (50 U.S.C. App. 1622(g)).


“(B) The Secretary may, with the concurrence of the Administrator of General Services—“(i) prescribe general policies and methods for utilizing excess property and disposing of surplus property pursuant to the authority delegated under paragraph (1); and

“(ii) issue regulations relating to such policies and methods, which shall supersede the regulations referred to in subparagraph (A) with respect to that authority.


“(C) The Secretary of Defense may transfer real property or facilities located at a military installation to be closed or realigned under this part, with or without reimbursement, to a military department or other entity (including a nonappropriated fund instrumentality) within the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard.

“(D) Before any action may be taken with respect to the disposal of any surplus real property or facility located at any military installation to be closed or realigned under this part, the Secretary of Defense shall consult with the Governor of the State and the heads of the local governments concerned for the purpose of considering any plan for the use of such property by the local community concerned.

“(E) If a military installation to be closed, realigned, or placed in an inactive status under this part includes a road used for public access through, into, or around the installation, the Secretary of Defense shall consult with the Governor of the State and the heads of the local governments concerned for the purpose of considering the continued availability of the road for public use after the installation is closed, realigned, or placed in an inactive status.


“(3)(A) Not later than 6 months after the date of approval of the closure or realignment of a military installation under this part, the Secretary, in consultation with the redevelopment authority with respect to the installation, shall—“(i) inventory the personal property located at the installation; and

“(ii) identify the items (or categories of items) of such personal property that the Secretary determines to be related to real property and anticipates will support the implementation of the redevelopment plan with respect to the installation.


“(B) If no redevelopment authority referred to in subparagraph (A) exists with respect to an installation, the Secretary shall consult with—“(i) the local government in whose jurisdiction the installation is wholly located; or

“(ii) a local government agency or State government agency designated for the purpose of such consultation by the chief executive officer of the State in which the installation is located.


“(C)(i) Except as provided in subparagraphs (E) and (F), the Secretary may not carry out any of the activities referred to in clause (ii) with respect to an installation referred to in that clause until the earlier of—“(I) one week after the date on which the redevelopment plan for the installation is submitted to the Secretary;

“(II) the date on which the redevelopment authority notifies the Secretary that it will not submit such a plan;

“(III) twenty-four months after the date of approval of the closure or realignment of the installation; or

“(IV) ninety days before the date of the closure or realignment of the installation.


“(ii) The activities referred to in clause (i) are activities relating to the closure or realignment of an installation to be closed or realigned under this part as follows:“(I) The transfer from the installation of items of personal property at the installation identified in accordance with subparagraph (A).

“(II) The reduction in maintenance and repair of facilities or equipment located at the installation below the minimum levels required to support the use of such facilities or equipment for nonmilitary purposes.



“(D) Except as provided in paragraph (4), the Secretary may not transfer items of personal property located at an installation to be closed or realigned under this part to another installation, or dispose of such items, if such items are identified in the redevelopment plan for the installation as items essential to the reuse or redevelopment of the installation. In connection with the development of the redevelopment plan for the installation, the Secretary shall consult with the entity responsible for developing the redevelopment plan to identify the items of personal property located at the installation, if any, that the entity desires to be retained at the installation for reuse or redevelopment of the installation.

“(E) This paragraph shall not apply to any personal property located at an installation to be closed or realigned under this part if the property—“(i) is required for the operation of a unit, function, component, weapon, or weapons system at another installation;

“(ii) is uniquely military in character, and is likely to have no civilian use (other than use for its material content or as a source of commonly used components);

“(iii) is not required for the reutilization or redevelopment of the installation (as jointly determined by the Secretary and the redevelopment authority);

“(iv) is stored at the installation for purposes of distribution (including spare parts or stock items); or

“(v)(I) meets known requirements of an authorized program of another Federal department or agency for which expenditures for similar property would be necessary, and (II) is the subject of a written request by the head of the department or agency.



“(F) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (C)(i) and (D), the Secretary may carry out any activity referred to in subparagraph (C)(ii) or (D) if the Secretary determines that the carrying out of such activity is in the national security interest of the United States.


“(4)(A) The Secretary may transfer real property and personal property located at a military installation to be closed or realigned under this part to the redevelopment authority with respect to the installation for purposes of job generation on the installation.

“(B) The transfer of property located at a military installation under subparagraph (A) may be for consideration at or below the estimated fair market value or without consideration. The determination of such consideration may account for the economic conditions of the local affected community and the estimated costs to redevelop the property. The Secretary may accept, as consideration, a share of the revenues that the redevelopment authority receives from third-party buyers or lessees from sales and long-term leases of the conveyed property, consideration in kind (including goods and services), real property and improvements, or such other consideration as the Secretary considers appropriate. The transfer of property located at a military installation under subparagraph (A) may be made for consideration below the estimated fair market value or without consideration only if the redevelopment authority with respect to the installation—“(i) agrees that the proceeds from any sale or lease of the property (or any portion thereof) received by the redevelopment authority during at least the first seven years after the date of the initial transfer of property under subparagraph (A) shall be used to support the economic redevelopment of, or related to, the installation; and

“(ii) executes the agreement for transfer of the property and accepts control of the property within a reasonable time after the date of the property disposal record of decision or finding of no significant impact under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).


“(C) For purposes of subparagraph (B)(i), the use of proceeds from a sale or lease described in such subparagraph to pay for, or offset the costs of, public investment on or related to the installation for any of the following purposes shall be considered a use to support the economic redevelopment of, or related to, the installation:“(i) Road construction.

“(ii) Transportation management facilities.

“(iii) Storm and sanitary sewer construction.

“(iv) Police and fire protection facilities and other public facilities.

“(v) Utility construction.

“(vi) Building rehabilitation.

“(vii) Historic property preservation.

“(viii) Pollution prevention equipment or facilities.

“(ix) Demolition.

“(x) Disposal of hazardous materials generated by demolition.

“(xi) Landscaping, grading, and other site or public improvements.

“(xii) Planning for or the marketing of the development and reuse of the installation.


“(D) The Secretary may recoup from a redevelopment authority such portion of the proceeds from a sale or lease described in subparagraph (B) as the Secretary determines appropriate if the redevelopment authority does not use the proceeds to support economic redevelopment of, or related to, the installation for the period specified in subparagraph (B).

“(E)(i) The Secretary may transfer real property at an installation approved for closure or realignment under this part (including property at an installation approved for realignment which will be retained by the Department of Defense or another Federal agency after realignment) to the redevelopment authority for the installation if the redevelopment authority agrees to lease, directly upon transfer, one or more portions of the property transferred under this subparagraph to the Secretary or to the head of another department or agency of the Federal Government. Subparagraph (B) shall apply to a transfer under this subparagraph.

“(ii) A lease under clause (i) shall be for a term of not to exceed 50 years, but may provide for options for renewal or extension of the term by the department or agency concerned.

“(iii) A lease under clause (i) may not require rental payments by the United States.

“(iv) A lease under clause (i) shall include a provision specifying that if the department or agency concerned ceases requiring the use of the leased property before the expiration of the term of the lease, the remainder of the lease term may be satisfied by the same or another department or agency of the Federal Government using the property for a use similar to the use under the lease. Exercise of the authority provided by this clause shall be made in consultation with the redevelopment authority concerned.

“(v) Notwithstanding clause (iii), if a lease under clause (i) involves a substantial portion of the installation, the department or agency concerned may obtain facility services for the leased property and common area maintenance from the redevelopment authority or the redevelopment authority’s assignee as a provision of the lease. The facility services and common area maintenance shall be provided at a rate no higher than the rate charged to non-Federal tenants of the transferred property. Facility services and common area maintenance covered by the lease shall not include—“(I) municipal services that a State or local government is required by law to provide to all landowners in its jurisdiction without direct charge; or

“(II) firefighting or security-guard functions.



“(F) The transfer of personal property under subparagraph (A) shall not be subject to the provisions of subchapters II and III of chapter 5 of title 40, United States Code, if the Secretary determines that the transfer of such property is necessary for the effective implementation of a redevelopment plan with respect to the installation at which such property is located.

“(G) The provisions of section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)) shall apply to any transfer of real property under this paragraph.

“(H)(i) In the case of an agreement for the transfer of property of a military installation under this paragraph that was entered into before April 21, 1999, the Secretary may modify the agreement, and in so doing compromise, waive, adjust, release, or reduce any right, title, claim, lien, or demand of the United States, if—“(I) the Secretary determines that as a result of changed economic circumstances, a modification of the agreement is necessary;

“(II) the terms of the modification do not require the return of any payments that have been made to the Secretary;

“(III) the terms of the modification do not compromise, waive, adjust, release, or reduce any right, title, claim, lien, or demand of the United States with respect to in-kind consideration; and

“(IV) the cash consideration to which the United States is entitled under the modified agreement, when combined with the cash consideration to be received by the United States for the disposal of other real property assets on the installation, are as sufficient as they were under the original agreement to fund the reserve account established under section 204(b)(7)(C) of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and Realignment Act [Pub. L. 100–526, 10 U.S.C. 2687 note], with the depreciated value of the investment made with commissary store funds or nonappropriated funds in property disposed of pursuant to the agreement being modified, in accordance with section 2906(d).


“(ii) When exercising the authority granted by clause (i), the Secretary may waive some or all future payments if, and to the extent that, the Secretary determines such waiver is necessary.

“(iii) With the exception of the requirement that the transfer be without consideration, the requirements of subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) shall be applicable to any agreement modified pursuant to clause (i).


“(I) In the case of an agreement for the transfer of property of a military installation under this paragraph that was entered into during the period beginning on April 21, 1999, and ending on the date of enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 [Oct. 5, 1999], at the request of the redevelopment authority concerned, the Secretary shall modify the agreement to conform to all the requirements of subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D). Such a modification may include the compromise, waiver, adjustment, release, or reduction of any right, title, claim, lien, or demand of the United States under the agreement.

“(J) The Secretary may require any additional terms and conditions in connection with a transfer under this paragraph as such Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.


“(5)(A) Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), the Secretary shall take such actions as the Secretary determines necessary to ensure that final determinations under paragraph (1) regarding whether another department or agency of the Federal Government has identified a use for any portion of a military installation to be closed or realigned under this part, or will accept transfer of any portion of such installation, are made not later than 6 months after the date of approval of closure or realignment of that installation.

“(B) The Secretary may, in consultation with the redevelopment authority with respect to an installation, postpone making the final determinations referred to in subparagraph (A) with respect to the installation for such period as the Secretary determines appropriate if the Secretary determines that such postponement is in the best interests of the communities affected by the closure or realignment of the installation.

“(C)(i) Before acquiring non-Federal real property as the location for a new or replacement Federal facility of any type, the head of the Federal agency acquiring the property shall consult with the Secretary regarding the feasibility and cost advantages of using Federal property or facilities at a military installation closed or realigned or to be closed or realigned under this part as the location for the new or replacement facility. In considering the availability and suitability of a specific military installation, the Secretary and the head of the Federal agency involved shall obtain the concurrence of the redevelopment authority with respect to the installation and comply with the redevelopment plan for the installation.

“(ii) Not later than 30 days after acquiring non-Federal real property as the location for a new or replacement Federal facility, the head of the Federal agency acquiring the property shall submit to Congress a report containing the results of the consultation under clause (i) and the reasons why military installations referred to in such clause that are located within the area to be served by the new or replacement Federal facility or within a 200-mile radius of the new or replacement facility, whichever area is greater, were considered to be unsuitable or unavailable for the site of the new or replacement facility.

“(iii) This subparagraph shall apply during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 [Nov. 18, 1997] and ending on July 31, 2001.



“(6)(A) Except as provided in this paragraph, nothing in this section shall limit or otherwise affect the application of the provisions of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.) to military installations closed under this part. For procedures relating to the use to assist the homeless of buildings and property at installations closed under this part after the date of the enactment of this sentence [Oct. 25, 1994], see paragraph (7).

“(B)(i) Not later than the date on which the Secretary of Defense completes the determination under paragraph (5) of the transferability of any portion of an installation to be closed under this part, the Secretary shall—“(I) complete any determinations or surveys necessary to determine whether any building or property referred to in clause (ii) is excess property, surplus property, or unutilized or underutilized property for the purpose of the information referred to in section 501(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 11411(a)); and

“(II) submit to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development information on any building or property that is so determined.


“(ii) The buildings and property referred to in clause (i) are any buildings or property located at an installation referred to in that clause for which no use is identified, or of which no Federal department or agency will accept transfer, pursuant to the determination of transferability referred to in that clause.


“(C) Not later than 60 days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits information to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under subparagraph (B)(ii), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall—“(i) identify the buildings and property described in such information that are suitable for use to assist the homeless;

“(ii) notify the Secretary of Defense of the buildings and property that are so identified;

“(iii) publish in the Federal Register a list of the buildings and property that are so identified, including with respect to each building or property the information referred to in section 501(c)(1)(B) of such Act [42 U.S.C. 11411(c)(1)(B)]; and

“(iv) make available with respect to each building and property the information referred to in section 501(c)(1)(C) of such Act in accordance with such section 501(c)(1)(C).


“(D) Any buildings and property included in a list published under subparagraph (C)(iii) shall be treated as property available for application for use to assist the homeless under section 501(d) of such Act.

“(E) The Secretary of Defense shall make available in accordance with section 501(f) of such Act any buildings or property referred to in subparagraph (D) for which—“(i) a written notice of an intent to use such buildings or property to assist the homeless is received by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with section 501(d)(2) of such Act;

“(ii) an application for use of such buildings or property for such purpose is submitted to the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with section 501(e)(2) of such Act; and

“(iii) the Secretary of Health and Human Services—“(I) completes all actions on the application in accordance with section 501(e)(3) of such Act; and

“(II) approves the application under section 501(e) of such Act.



“(F)(i) Subject to clause (ii), a redevelopment authority may express in writing an interest in using buildings and property referred to subparagraph (D), and buildings and property referred to in subparagraph (B)(ii) which have not been identified as suitable for use to assist the homeless under subparagraph (C), or use such buildings and property, in accordance with the redevelopment plan with respect to the installation at which such buildings and property are located as follows:“(I) If no written notice of an intent to use such buildings or property to assist the homeless is received by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with section 501(d)(2) of such Act during the 60-day period beginning on the date of the publication of the buildings and property under subparagraph (C)(iii).

“(II) In the case of buildings and property for which such notice is so received, if no completed application for use of the buildings or property for such purpose is received by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with section 501(e)(2) of such Act during the 90-day period beginning on the date of the receipt of such notice.

“(III) In the case of buildings and property for which such application is so received, if the Secretary of Health and Human Services rejects the application under section 501(e) of such Act.


“(ii) Buildings and property shall be available only for the purpose of permitting a redevelopment authority to express in writing an interest in the use of such buildings and property, or to use such buildings and property, under clause (i) as follows:“(I) In the case of buildings and property referred to in clause (i)(I), during the one-year period beginning on the first day after the 60-day period referred to in that clause.

“(II) In the case of buildings and property referred to in clause (i)(II), during the one-year period beginning on the first day after the 90-day period referred to in that clause.

“(III) In the case of buildings and property referred to in clause (i)(III), during the one-year period beginning on the date of the rejection of the application referred to in that clause.


“(iii) A redevelopment authority shall express an interest in the use of buildings and property under this subparagraph by notifying the Secretary of Defense, in writing, of such an interest.


“(G)(i) Buildings and property available for a redevelopment authority under subparagraph (F) shall not be available for use to assist the homeless under section 501 of such Act [42 U.S.C. 11411] while so available for a redevelopment authority.

“(ii) If a redevelopment authority does not express an interest in the use of buildings or property, or commence the use of buildings or property, under subparagraph (F) within the applicable time periods specified in clause (ii) of such subparagraph, such buildings or property shall be treated as property available for use to assist the homeless under section 501(a) of such Act.



“(7)(A) The disposal of buildings and property located at installations approved for closure or realignment under this part after October 25, 1994, shall be carried out in accordance with this paragraph rather than paragraph (6).

“(B)(i) Not later than the date on which the Secretary of Defense completes the final determinations referred to in paragraph (5) relating to the use or transferability of any portion of an installation covered by this paragraph, the Secretary shall—“(I) identify the buildings and property at the installation for which the Department of Defense has a use, for which another department or agency of the Federal Government has identified a use, or of which another department or agency will accept a transfer;

“(II) take such actions as are necessary to identify any building or property at the installation not identified under subclause (I) that is excess property or surplus property;

“(III) submit to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and to the redevelopment authority for the installation (or the chief executive officer of the State in which the installation is located if there is no redevelopment authority for the installation at the completion of the determination described in the stem of this sentence) information on any building or property that is identified under subclause (II); and

“(IV) publish in the Federal Register and in a newspaper of general circulation in the communities in the vicinity of the installation information on the buildings and property identified under subclause (II).


“(ii) Upon the recognition of a redevelopment authority for an installation covered by this paragraph, the Secretary of Defense shall publish in the Federal Register and in a newspaper of general circulation in the communities in the vicinity of the installation information on the redevelopment authority.


“(C)(i) State and local governments, representatives of the homeless, and other interested parties located in the communities in the vicinity of an installation covered by this paragraph shall submit to the redevelopment authority for the installation a notice of the interest, if any, of such governments, representatives, and parties in the buildings or property, or any portion thereof, at the installation that are identified under subparagraph (B)(i)(II). A notice of interest under this clause shall describe the need of the government, representative, or party concerned for the buildings or property covered by the notice.

“(ii) The redevelopment authority for an installation shall assist the governments, representatives, and parties referred to in clause (i) in evaluating buildings and property at the installation for purposes of this subparagraph.

“(iii) In providing assistance under clause (ii), a redevelopment authority shall—“(I) consult with representatives of the homeless in the communities in the vicinity of the installation concerned; and

“(II) undertake outreach efforts to provide information on the buildings and property to representatives of the homeless, and to other persons or entities interested in assisting the homeless, in such communities.


“(iv) It is the sense of Congress that redevelopment authorities should begin to conduct outreach efforts under clause (iii)(II) with respect to an installation as soon as is practicable after the date of approval of closure or realignment of the installation.


“(D)(i) State and local governments, representatives of the homeless, and other interested parties shall submit a notice of interest to a redevelopment authority under subparagraph (C) not later than the date specified for such notice by the redevelopment authority.

“(ii) The date specified under clause (i) shall be—“(I) in the case of an installation for which a redevelopment authority has been recognized as of the date of the completion of the determinations referred to in paragraph (5), not earlier than 3 months and not later than 6 months after the date of publication of such determination in a newspaper of general circulation in the communities in the vicinity of the installation under subparagraph (B)(i)(IV); and

“(II) in the case of an installation for which a redevelopment authority is not recognized as of such date, not earlier than 3 months and not later than 6 months after the date of the recognition of a redevelopment authority for the installation.


“(iii) Upon specifying a date for an installation under this subparagraph, the redevelopment authority for the installation shall—“(I) publish the date specified in a newspaper of general circulation in the communities in the vicinity of the installation concerned; and

“(II) notify the Secretary of Defense of the date.



“(E)(i) In submitting to a redevelopment authority under subparagraph (C) a notice of interest in the use of buildings or property at an installation to assist the homeless, a representative of the homeless shall submit the following:“(I) A description of the homeless assistance program that the representative proposes to carry out at the installation.

“(II) An assessment of the need for the program.

“(III) A description of the extent to which the program is or will be coordinated with other homeless assistance programs in the communities in the vicinity of the installation.

“(IV) A description of the buildings and property at the installation that are necessary in order to carry out the program.

“(V) A description of the financial plan, the organization, and the organizational capacity of the representative to carry out the program.

“(VI) An assessment of the time required in order to commence carrying out the program.


“(ii) A redevelopment authority may not release to the public any information submitted to the redevelopment authority under clause (i)(V) without the consent of the representative of the homeless concerned unless such release is authorized under Federal law and under the law of the State and communities in which the installation concerned is located.


“(F)(i) The redevelopment authority for each installation covered by this paragraph shall prepare a redevelopment plan for the installation. The redevelopment authority shall, in preparing the plan, consider the interests in the use to assist the homeless of the buildings and property at the installation that are expressed in the notices submitted to the redevelopment authority under subparagraph (C).

“(ii)(I) In connection with a redevelopment plan for an installation, a redevelopment authority and representatives of the homeless shall prepare legally binding agreements that provide for the use to assist the homeless of buildings and property, resources, and assistance on or off the installation. The implementation of such agreements shall be contingent upon the decision regarding the disposal of the buildings and property covered by the agreements by the Secretary of Defense under subparagraph (K) or (L).

“(II) Agreements under this clause shall provide for the reversion to the redevelopment authority concerned, or to such other entity or entities as the agreements shall provide, of buildings and property that are made available under this paragraph for use to assist the homeless in the event that such buildings and property cease being used for that purpose.


“(iii) A redevelopment authority shall provide opportunity for public comment on a redevelopment plan before submission of the plan to the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under subparagraph (G).

“(iv) A redevelopment authority shall complete preparation of a redevelopment plan for an installation and submit the plan under subparagraph (G) not later than 9 months after the date specified by the redevelopment authority for the installation under subparagraph (D).


“(G)(i) Upon completion of a redevelopment plan under subparagraph (F), a redevelopment authority shall submit an application containing the plan to the Secretary of Defense and to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.

“(ii) A redevelopment authority shall include in an application under clause (i) the following:“(I) A copy of the redevelopment plan, including a summary of any public comments on the plan received by the redevelopment authority under subparagraph (F)(iii).

“(II) A copy of each notice of interest of use of buildings and property to assist the homeless that was submitted to the redevelopment authority under subparagraph (C), together with a description of the manner, if any, in which the plan addresses the interest expressed in each such notice and, if the plan does not address such an interest, an explanation why the plan does not address the interest.

“(III) A summary of the outreach undertaken by the redevelopment authority under subparagraph (C)(iii)(II) in preparing the plan.

“(IV) A statement identifying the representatives of the homeless and the homeless assistance planning boards, if any, with which the redevelopment authority consulted in preparing the plan, and the results of such consultations.

“(V) An assessment of the manner in which the redevelopment plan balances the expressed needs of the homeless and the need of the communities in the vicinity of the installation for economic redevelopment and other development.

“(VI) Copies of the agreements that the redevelopment authority proposes to enter into under subparagraph (F)(ii).



“(H)(i) Not later than 60 days after receiving a redevelopment plan under subparagraph (G), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall complete a review of the plan. The purpose of the review is to determine whether the plan, with respect to the expressed interest and requests of representatives of the homeless—“(I) takes into consideration the size and nature of the homeless population in the communities in the vicinity of the installation, the availability of existing services in such communities to meet the needs of the homeless in such communities, and the suitability of the buildings and property covered by the plan for the use and needs of the homeless in such communities;

“(II) takes into consideration any economic impact of the homeless assistance under the plan on the communities in the vicinity of the installation;

“(III) balances in an appropriate manner the needs of the communities in the vicinity of the installation for economic redevelopment and other development with the needs of the homeless in such communities;

“(IV) was developed in consultation with representatives of the homeless and the homeless assistance planning boards, if any, in the communities in the vicinity of the installation; and

“(V) specifies the manner in which buildings and property, resources, and assistance on or off the installation will be made available for homeless assistance purposes.


“(ii) It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall, in completing the review of a plan under this subparagraph, take into consideration and be receptive to the predominant views on the plan of the communities in the vicinity of the installation covered by the plan.

“(iii) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may engage in negotiations and consultations with a redevelopment authority before or during the course of a review under clause (i) with a view toward resolving any preliminary determination of the Secretary that a redevelopment plan does not meet a requirement set forth in that clause. The redevelopment authority may modify the redevelopment plan as a result of such negotiations and consultations.

“(iv) Upon completion of a review of a redevelopment plan under clause (i), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall notify the Secretary of Defense and the redevelopment authority concerned of the determination of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under that clause.

“(v) If the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development determines as a result of such a review that a redevelopment plan does not meet the requirements set forth in clause (i), a notice under clause (iv) shall include—“(I) an explanation of that determination; and

“(II) a statement of the actions that the redevelopment authority must undertake in order to address that determination.



“(I)(i) Upon receipt of a notice under subparagraph (H)(iv) of a determination that a redevelopment plan does not meet a requirement set forth in subparagraph (H)(i), a redevelopment authority shall have the opportunity to—“(I) revise the plan in order to address the determination; and

“(II) submit the revised plan to the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.


“(ii) A redevelopment authority shall submit a revised plan under this subparagraph to such Secretaries, if at all, not later than 90 days after the date on which the redevelopment authority receives the notice referred to in clause (i).


“(J)(i) Not later than 30 days after receiving a revised redevelopment plan under subparagraph (I), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall review the revised plan and determine if the plan meets the requirements set forth in subparagraph (H)(i).

“(ii) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall notify the Secretary of Defense and the redevelopment authority concerned of the determination of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under this subparagraph.


“(K)(i) Upon receipt of a notice under subparagraph (H)(iv) or (J)(ii) of the determination of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development that a redevelopment plan for an installation meets the requirements set forth in subparagraph (H)(i), the Secretary of Defense shall dispose of the buildings and property at the installation.

“(ii) For purposes of carrying out an environmental assessment of the closure or realignment of an installation, the Secretary of Defense shall treat the redevelopment plan for the installation (including the aspects of the plan providing for disposal to State or local governments, representatives of the homeless, and other interested parties) as part of the proposed Federal action for the installation.

“(iii) The Secretary of Defense shall dispose of buildings and property under clause (i) in accordance with the record of decision or other decision document prepared by the Secretary in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.). In preparing the record of decision or other decision document, the Secretary shall give substantial deference to the redevelopment plan concerned.

“(iv) The disposal under clause (i) of buildings and property to assist the homeless shall be without consideration.

“(v) In the case of a request for a conveyance under clause (i) of buildings and property for public benefit under section 550 of title 40, United States Code, or sections 47151 through 47153 of title 49, United States Code, the sponsoring Federal agency shall use the eligibility criteria set forth in such section or such subchapter [probably means subchapter II (§ 47151 et seq.) of chapter 471 of Title 49, Transportation] (as the case may be) to determine the eligibility of the applicant and use proposed in the request for the public benefit conveyance. The determination of such eligibility should be made before submission of the redevelopment plan concerned under subparagraph (G).


“(L)(i) If the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development determines under subparagraph (J) that a revised redevelopment plan for an installation does not meet the requirements set forth in subparagraph (H)(i), or if no revised plan is so submitted, that Secretary shall—“(I) review the original redevelopment plan submitted to that Secretary under subparagraph (G), including the notice or notices of representatives of the homeless referred to in clause (ii)(II) of that subparagraph;

“(II) consult with the representatives referred to in subclause (I), if any, for purposes of evaluating the continuing interest of such representatives in the use of buildings or property at the installation to assist the homeless;

“(III) request that each such representative submit to that Secretary the items described in clause (ii); and

“(IV) based on the actions of that Secretary under subclauses (I) and (II), and on any information obtained by that Secretary as a result of such actions, indicate to the Secretary of Defense the buildings and property at the installation that meet the requirements set forth in subparagraph (H)(i).


“(ii) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may request under clause (i)(III) that a representative of the homeless submit to that Secretary the following:“(I) A description of the program of such representative to assist the homeless.

“(II) A description of the manner in which the buildings and property that the representative proposes to use for such purpose will assist the homeless.

“(III) Such information as that Secretary requires in order to determine the financial capacity of the representative to carry out the program and to ensure that the program will be carried out in compliance with Federal environmental law and Federal law against discrimination.

“(IV) A certification that police services, fire protection services, and water and sewer services available in the communities in the vicinity of the installation concerned are adequate for the program.


“(iii) Not later than 90 days after the date of the receipt of a revised plan for an installation under subparagraph (J), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall—“(I) notify the Secretary of Defense and the redevelopment authority concerned of the buildings and property at an installation under clause (i)(IV) that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development determines are suitable for use to assist the homeless; and

“(II) notify the Secretary of Defense of the extent to which the revised plan meets the criteria set forth in subparagraph (H)(i).


“(iv)(I) Upon notice from the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development with respect to an installation under clause (iii), the Secretary of Defense shall dispose of buildings and property at the installation in consultation with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the redevelopment authority concerned.

“(II) For purposes of carrying out an environmental assessment of the closure or realignment of an installation, the Secretary of Defense shall treat the redevelopment plan submitted by the redevelopment authority for the installation (including the aspects of the plan providing for disposal to State or local governments, representatives of the homeless, and other interested parties) as part of the proposed Federal action for the installation. The Secretary of Defense shall incorporate the notification of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under clause (iii)(I) as part of the proposed Federal action for the installation only to the extent, if any, that the Secretary of Defense considers such incorporation to be appropriate and consistent with the best and highest use of the installation as a whole, taking into consideration the redevelopment plan submitted by the redevelopment authority.

“(III) The Secretary of Defense shall dispose of buildings and property under subclause (I) in accordance with the record of decision or other decision document prepared by the Secretary in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.). In preparing the record of decision or other decision document, the Secretary shall give deference to the redevelopment plan submitted by the redevelopment authority for the installation.

“(IV) The disposal under subclause (I) of buildings and property to assist the homeless shall be without consideration.

“(V) In the case of a request for a conveyance under subclause (I) of buildings and property for public benefit under section 550 of title 40, United States Code, or sections 47151 through 47153 of title 49, United States Code, the sponsoring Federal agency shall use the eligibility criteria set forth in such section or such subchapter [probably means subchapter II (§ 47151 et seq.) of Title 49, Transportation] (as the case may be) to determine the eligibility of the applicant and use proposed in the request for the public benefit conveyance. The determination of such eligibility should be made before submission of the redevelopment plan concerned under subparagraph (G).



“(M)(i) In the event of the disposal of buildings and property of an installation pursuant to subparagraph (K) or (L), the redevelopment authority for the installation shall be responsible for the implementation of and compliance with agreements under the redevelopment plan described in that subparagraph for the installation.

“(ii) If a building or property reverts to a redevelopment authority under such an agreement, the redevelopment authority shall take appropriate actions to secure, to the maximum extent practicable, the utilization of the building or property by other homeless representatives to assist the homeless. A redevelopment authority may not be required to utilize the building or property to assist the homeless.


“(N) The Secretary of Defense may postpone or extend any deadline provided for under this paragraph in the case of an installation covered by this paragraph for such period as the Secretary considers appropriate if the Secretary determines that such postponement is in the interests of the communities affected by the closure or realignment of the installation. The Secretary shall make such determinations in consultation with the redevelopment authority concerned and, in the case of deadlines provided for under this paragraph with respect to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in consultation with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.

“(O) For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘communities in the vicinity of the installation’, in the case of an installation, means the communities that constitute the political jurisdictions (other than the State in which the installation is located) that comprise the redevelopment authority for the installation.

“(P) For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘other interested parties’, in the case of an installation, includes any parties eligible for the conveyance of property of the installation under section 550 of title 40, United States Code, or sections 47151 through 47153 of title 49, United States Code, whether or not the parties assist the homeless.


“(8)(A) Subject to subparagraph (C), the Secretary may enter into agreements (including contracts, cooperative agreements, or other arrangements for reimbursement) with local governments for the provision of police or security services, fire protection services, airfield operation services, or other community services by such governments at military installations to be closed under this part, or at facilities not yet transferred or otherwise disposed of in the case of installations closed under this part, if the Secretary determines that the provision of such services under such agreements is in the best interests of the Department of Defense.

“(B) The Secretary may exercise the authority provided under this paragraph without regard to the provisions of chapter 146 of title 10, United States Code.

“(C) The Secretary may not exercise the authority under subparagraph (A) with respect to an installation earlier than 180 days before the date on which the installation is to be closed.

“(D) The Secretary shall include in a contract for services entered into with a local government under this paragraph a clause that requires the use of professionals to furnish the services to the extent that professionals are available in the area under the jurisdiction of such government.



“(c) Applicability of National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.—(1) The provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) shall not apply to the actions of the President, the Commission, and, except as provided in paragraph (2), the Department of Defense in carrying out this part.

“(2)(A) The provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 shall apply to actions of the Department of Defense under this part (i) during the process of property disposal, and (ii) during the process of relocating functions from a military installation being closed or realigned to another military installation after the receiving installation has been selected but before the functions are relocated.

“(B) In applying the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 to the processes referred to in subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the military departments concerned shall not have to consider—“(i) the need for closing or realigning the military installation which has been recommended for closure or realignment by the Commission;

“(ii) the need for transferring functions to any military installation which has been selected as the receiving installation; or

“(iii) military installations alternative to those recommended or selected.



“(3) A civil action for judicial review, with respect to any requirement of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 to the extent such Act is applicable under paragraph (2), of any act or failure to act by the Department of Defense during the closing, realigning, or relocating of functions referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) of paragraph (2)(A), may not be brought more than 60 days after the date of such act or failure to act.


“(d) Waiver.—The Secretary of Defense may close or realign military installations under this part without regard to—“(1) any provision of law restricting the use of funds for closing or realigning military installations included in any appropriations or authorization Act; and

“(2) sections 2662 and 2687 of title 10, United States Code.


“(e) Transfer Authority in Connection With Payment of Environmental Remediation Costs.—(1)(A) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection and section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)), the Secretary may enter into an agreement to transfer by deed real property or facilities referred to in subparagraph (B) with any person who agrees to perform all environmental restoration, waste management, and environmental compliance activities that are required for the property or facilities under Federal and State laws, administrative decisions, agreements (including schedules and milestones), and concurrences.

“(B) The real property and facilities referred to in subparagraph (A) are the real property and facilities located at an installation closed or to be closed, or realigned or to be realigned, under this part that are available exclusively for the use, or expression of an interest in a use, of a redevelopment authority under subsection (b)(6)(F) during the period provided for that use, or expression of interest in use, under that subsection. The real property and facilities referred to in subparagraph (A) are also the real property and facilities located at an installation approved for closure or realignment under this part after 2001 that are available for purposes other than to assist the homeless.

“(C) The Secretary may require any additional terms and conditions in connection with an agreement authorized by subparagraph (A) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.


“(2) A transfer of real property or facilities may be made under paragraph (1) only if the Secretary certifies to Congress that—“(A) the costs of all environmental restoration, waste management, and environmental compliance activities otherwise to be paid by the Secretary with respect to the property or facilities are equal to or greater than the fair market value of the property or facilities to be transferred, as determined by the Secretary; or

“(B) if such costs are lower than the fair market value of the property or facilities, the recipient of the property or facilities agrees to pay the difference between the fair market value and such costs.


“(3) In the case of property or facilities covered by a certification under paragraph (2)(A), the Secretary may pay the recipient of such property or facilities an amount equal to the lesser of—“(A) the amount by which the costs incurred by the recipient of such property or facilities for all environmental restoration, waste, management, and environmental compliance activities with respect to such property or facilities exceed the fair market value of such property or facilities as specified in such certification; or

“(B) the amount by which the costs (as determined by the Secretary) that would otherwise have been incurred by the Secretary for such restoration, management, and activities with respect to such property or facilities exceed the fair market value of such property or facilities as so specified.


“(4) As part of an agreement under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall disclose to the person to whom the property or facilities will be transferred any information of the Secretary regarding the environmental restoration, waste management, and environmental compliance activities described in paragraph (1) that relate to the property or facilities. The Secretary shall provide such information before entering into the agreement.

“(5) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to modify, alter, or amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) or the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.).

“(6) Section 330 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (Public Law 102–484; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) shall not apply to any transfer under this subsection to persons or entities described in subsection (a)(2) of such section 330, except in the case of releases or threatened releases not disclosed pursuant to paragraph (4).


“[(f) Repealed. Pub. L. 108–136, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2805(d)(2), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1721.]

“(g) Acquisition of Manufactured Housing.—(1) In closing or realigning any military installation under this part, the Secretary may purchase any or all right, title, and interest of a member of the Armed Forces and any spouse of the member in manufactured housing located at a manufactured housing park established at an installation closed or realigned under this part, or make a payment to the member to relocate the manufactured housing to a suitable new site, if the Secretary determines that—“(A) it is in the best interests of the Federal Government to eliminate or relocate the manufactured housing park; and

“(B) the elimination or relocation of the manufactured housing park would result in an unreasonable financial hardship to the owners of the manufactured housing.


“(2) Any payment made under this subsection shall not exceed 90 percent of the purchase price of the manufactured housing, as paid by the member or any spouse of the member, plus the cost of any permanent improvements subsequently made to the manufactured housing by the member or spouse of the member.

“(3) The Secretary shall dispose of manufactured housing acquired under this subsection through resale, donation, trade or otherwise within one year of acquisition.


