§ 6604. Marine Turtle Conservation Fund(a) EstablishmentThere is established in the Multinational Species Conservation Fund a separate account to be known as the “Marine Turtle Conservation Fund”, consisting of—(1) amounts transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit into the Fund under subsection (e);

(2) amounts appropriated to the Fund under section 6605 of this title; and

(3) any interest earned on investment of amounts in the Fund under subsection (c).


(b) Expenditures from Fund(1) In generalSubject to paragraph (2), on request by the Secretary, the Secretary of the Treasury shall transfer from the Fund to the Secretary, without further appropriation, such amounts as the Secretary determines are necessary to carry out section 6603 of this title.


(2) Administrative expensesOf the amounts in the account available for each fiscal year, the Secretary may expend not more than 3 percent, or up to $80,000, whichever is greater, to pay the administrative expenses necessary to carry out this chapter.



(c) Investment of amounts(1) In generalThe Secretary of the Treasury shall invest such portion of the Fund as is not, in the judgment of the Secretary of the Treasury, required to meet current withdrawals. Investments may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the United States.


(2) Acquisition of obligationsFor the purpose of investments under paragraph (1), obligations may be acquired—(A) on original issue at the issue price; or

(B) by purchase of outstanding obligations at the market price.


(3) Sale of obligationsAny obligation acquired by the Fund may be sold by the Secretary of the Treasury at the market price.


(4) Credits to FundThe interest on, and the proceeds from the sale or redemption of, any obligations held in the Fund shall be credited to and form a part of the Fund.



(d) Transfers of amounts(1) In generalThe amounts required to be transferred to the Fund under this section shall be transferred at least monthly from the general fund of the Treasury to the Fund on the basis of estimates made by the Secretary of the Treasury.


(2) AdjustmentsProper adjustment shall be made in amounts subsequently transferred to the extent prior estimates were in excess of or less than the amounts required to be transferred.



(e) Acceptance and use of donationsThe Secretary may accept and use donations to provide assistance under section 6603 of this title. Amounts received by the Secretary in the form of donations shall be transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in the Fund.


(Pub. L. 108–266, § 5, July 2, 2004, 118 Stat. 794.)
