§ 4061. Commencing of action for relief(a) Filing of petitionA petition requesting action under this part for the purpose of adjusting to the obligations of the United States under the Agreement may be filed with the Commission by an entity, including a trade association, firm, certified or recognized union, or group of workers, that is representative of an industry. The Commission shall transmit a copy of any petition filed under this subsection to the United States Trade Representative.


(b) Investigation and determinationUpon the filing of a petition under subsection (a), the Commission, unless subsection (d) applies, shall promptly initiate an investigation to determine whether, as a result of the reduction or elimination of a duty provided for under the Agreement, a CAFTA–DR article is being imported into the United States in such increased quantities, in absolute terms or relative to domestic production, and under such conditions that imports of the CAFTA–DR article constitute a substantial cause of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry producing an article that is like, or directly competitive with, the imported article.


(c) Applicable provisionsThe following provisions of section 2252 of this title apply with respect to any investigation initiated under subsection (b):(1) Paragraphs (1)(B) and (3) of subsection (b).

(2) Subsection (c).

(3) Subsection (i).


(d) Articles exempt from investigationNo investigation may be initiated under this section with respect to any CAFTA–DR article if, after the date that the Agreement enters into force, import relief has been provided with respect to that CAFTA–DR article under this part.


(Pub. L. 109–53, title III, § 311, Aug. 2, 2005, 119 Stat. 488.)

Termination of SectionFor termination of section by section 107(d) of Pub. L. 109–53, see Effective and Termination Dates note below.


References in TextThis part, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d), was in the original “this subtitle”, meaning subtitle A (§§ 311–316) of title III of Pub. L. 109–53, Aug. 2, 2005, 119 Stat. 488, which enacted this part and amended section 2252 of this title. For complete classification of subtitle A to the Code, see Tables.

Effective and Termination DatesSection effective on the date the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement enters into force (Mar. 1, 2006) and to cease to have effect on the date the Agreement ceases to be in force with respect to the United States, and, during any period in which a country ceases to be a CAFTA–DR country, to cease to have effect with respect to such country, see section 107 of Pub. L. 109–53, set out as a note under section 4001 of this title.


