“SEC. 606. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.“(a) Status of Lands After Exchange.—“(1) Land acquired by the secretary.—“(A) In general.—Land acquired by the Secretary under this Act shall become part of the Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie, Gifford Pinchot or Wenatchee National Forests, as appropriate.

“(B) Modification of boundaries.—“(1) If any land acquired by the Secretary lies outside the exterior boundaries of the national forests identified in subparagraph (A), the boundaries of the appropriate national forest are hereby modified to include such land.

“(2) Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Secretary to adjust the boundaries of such National Forests pursuant to section 11 of the Act of March 1, 1911 (commonly known as the ‘Weeks Act’) [16 U.S.C. 521].

“(3) For purposes of section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 4601–9 [460l–9]) the boundaries of Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie, Wenatchee and Gifford Pinchot as modified by this Act shall be considered to be the boundaries of such forests as of January 1, 1965.


“(C) Management.—Land acquired by the Secretary under this Act shall have the status of lands acquired under the Act of March 1, 1911 [act Mar. 1, 1911, ch. 186, 36 Stat. 961, see Tables for classification] and shall be managed in accordance with the laws, rules, regulations and guidelines applicable to the National Forest System.


“(2) Land acquired by plum creek.—Land acquired by Plum Creek under this Act shall become private land for all purposes of law, unless the deed by which conveyance is made to Plum Creek contains a specific reservation.


“(b) Post-Exchange Access to Land.—“(1) Finding.—Congress finds that Plum Creek and the Secretary should have adequate and timely post-exchange access to lands acquired pursuant to this Act over existing primary, secondary, or other national forest system roads as may be needed.

“(2) Intention.—It is the intention of Congress that Plum Creek have access to all lands it acquires under this Act, and when such access requires construction of new roads, it shall be granted in compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act [of 1969] [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.], the Endangered Species Act [of 1973] [16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.], the National Historic Preservation Act [16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.], and other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.

“(3) Access within cost share agreement areas.—Within Cost Share Construction and Use Agreement Areas, Plum Creek and the Secretary will convey road access, at no cost, to the lands acquired by each party upon consummation of the exchange pursuant to this Act in accordance with the appropriate terms and procedures of said cost share construction and use agreements.

“(4) Access outside cost share agreement areas.—Outside of Cost Share Construction and Use Agreement Areas, the Secretary shall grant Plum Creek road access easements at no cost in a form set out in Forest Service Handbook 2709.12, 35. In the case of new road construction, they shall conform to the Secretary’s rules and regulations 36 CFR 251, subpart B, for the roads identified on the map entitled ‘Plum Creek Access Road Needs’, dated September 1998, including mitigation under existing law.


“(c) Access to Certain Lands Acquired by the United States.—Outside of Cost Share Construction and Use Agreement Areas, Plum Creek shall grant the Secretary road access easements at no cost on the locations identified by the Secretary in a format acceptable to the Secretary.

“(d) Timing.—The Secretary and Plum Creek shall make the adjustments directed in section 604(a) and (b) and consummate the land exchange within 30 days of the enactment of the Interstate 90 Land Exchange Amendment [Nov. 29, 1999], unless the Secretary and Plum Creek mutually agree to extend the consummation date.

“(e) Withdrawal of Selected Land.—Effective upon the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 21, 1998], all selected land identified for exchange to Plum Creek under section 604(b) is hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry and appropriation under the U.S. mining and mineral leasing laws, including the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 [30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.], until such time as the exchange is consummated, or until a particular parcel or parcels are deleted from the exchange under section 605(d).

“(f) Withdrawal of Cle Elum River Lands.—Lands acquired by the Secretary under this Act that are located in Township 23 North, Range 14 East, and Township 22 North, Range 14 East, Willamette Meridian, shall upon the date of their acquisition be permanently withdrawn from all forms of entry and appropriation under the U.S. mining and mineral leasing laws, including the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 [30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.].

“(g) Parcels Subject to Historic or Cultural Resource Restrictions.—“(1) Report to plum creek.—No later than 180 days after enactment of this Act [Oct. 21, 1998], the Secretary shall complete determinations and consultation under the National Historic Preservation Act [16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.] and submit a report to Plum Creek and other consulting parties under the National Historic Preservation Act listing by exact aliquot part description any parcel or parcels of selected land on which cultural properties have been identified and for which protection, use restrictions or mitigation requirements will be imposed. Such report shall include an exact description of each restriction or mitigation action required.

“(2) Plum creek response.—Within 30 days of receipt of the Secretary’s report under paragraph (1), Plum Creek shall notify the Secretary as to: (i) those parcels it will accept subject to the identified use restrictions or mitigation requirements; and (ii) those parcels it will not accept because the restrictions or mitigation requirements are deemed by Plum Creek to be an unacceptable encumbrance on the land.

“(3) Parcel deletion.—The Secretary shall delete from the selected land those parcels identified by Plum Creek as unacceptable for conveyance under paragraph (2).

“(4) Appraisal adjustment.—The fair market value of any parcels deleted under paragraph (3), or any modification in fair market value caused by the use restrictions or mitigation requirements on land accepted by Plum Creek, shall be based on their contributory value to the final approved appraised value of the selected land and subtracted from such value prior to consummation of the exchange.


“(h) Access Limitation.—The Secretary shall not grant any road easements that would access the offered lands listed in section 604(a) prior to consummation of the exchange: Provided, That this provision shall not apply should either party withdraw from the exchange.

