§ 459g–1. Acquisition of property(a) Transfer from Federal agency to administrative jurisdiction of Secretary; non-Federal landsNotwithstanding any other provision of law, Federal property located within the boundaries of the Cape Lookout National Seashore may, with the concurrence of the agency having custody thereof, be transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior for the purposes of the seashore. Such transfer shall be made without transfer of funds. Lands owned by the State of North Carolina or any political subdivision thereof may be acquired only by donation, but the Secretary may, subject to the provisions of section 459g–6 of this title, acquire any other non-Federal lands, marshlands, waters, or interests therein which are located within the boundaries of the seashore by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may accept any lands donated by the State of North Carolina subject to a provision for reversion to the State conditioned upon continued use of the property for national seashore purposes. Land donated by the State of North Carolina pursuant to this subsection shall constitute consideration for the transfer by the United States of 1.5 acres of land that is to be used as a site for a public health facility in the village of Hatteras, Dare County, North Carolina.


(b) Exchange of property; cash equalization paymentsWhen acquiring lands by exchange, the Secretary may accept title to any non-Federal property within the boundaries of the seashore and convey to the grantor of such property any federally owned property in the State of North Carolina under his jurisdiction which he classifies as proper for exchange or other disposition. Failing to effectuate an exchange of properties of approximately equal fair market value, the Secretary may accept cash from or pay cash to the grantor in such an exchange in order to equalize the values of the properties exchanged.


(c) Owner’s reservation of right of use and occupancy for residential purposes for life or fixed term of years; exclusion of property necessary for public use and access; election of termAny person who on January 1, 1966, owned property which on July 1, 1963, was developed and used for noncommercial residential purposes may reserve for himself and his assigns, as a condition to the purchase or acquisition by exchange of such property by the Secretary, a right of use and occupancy of the residence and not in excess of three acres of land on which the residence is situated, for noncommercial residential purposes for a term ending at the death of the owner, or the death of his spouse, or the death of either of them, or, in lieu thereof, for a definite term not to exceed twenty-five years: Provided, That the Secretary may exclude from such reserved property any marsh, beach, or waters, together with so much of the land adjoining such marsh, beach, or waters as he deems necessary for public access thereto. The owner shall elect the term of the right to be reserved. The Secretary is authorized to accept donations of property for purposes of the seashore in which a right of use and occupancy for noncommercial residential purposes is reserved for the period stated in this subsection if the land on which the residence is situated and to which the right attaches is not in excess of three acres and there is excluded from the reserved property such marsh, beach, or waters and adjoining land as the Secretary deems necessary for public use and access thereto.


(d) Termination of use and occupancy inconsistent with statutory purposes and upon tender of sum for unexpired rightA right of use and occupancy reserved in lands that are donated or otherwise acquired pursuant to this section shall be subject to termination by the Secretary upon his determination that such use and occupancy is being exercised in a manner not consistent with the purposes of sections 459g to 459g–7 of this title and upon tender to the holder of the right of an amount equal to the fair market value of that portion of the right which remains unexpired on the date of termination.


(e) Administrative site; landing dock and related approach or access facilitiesThe Secretary of the Interior is authorized to purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or acquire by exchange, not to exceed one hundred acres of lands or interests in lands at or near Beaufort, North Carolina, as an administrative site, and for a landing dock and related facilities that may be used to provide a suitable approach or access to the seashore.


(Pub. L. 89–366, § 2, Mar. 10, 1966, 80 Stat. 34; Pub. L. 93–477, title IV, § 406(2), Oct. 26, 1974, 88 Stat. 1448.)

Amendments1974—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 93–477 substituted provisions relating to acquisition by donation of lands owned by the State of North Carolina and acquisition by donation, purchase or exchange of non-Federal lands, marshlands, etc., and acceptance of lands donated by North Carolina, for provisions relating to acquisition of non-Federal lands, marshlands, etc., by donation only and acquisition by exchange lands comprising the Shackleford Banks.


