§ 9314b. United States Air Force Institute of Technology: administration(a) Commandant.—(1) Selection.—The Commandant of the United States Air Force Institute of Technology shall be selected by the Secretary of the Air Force.

(2) Eligibility.—The Commandant shall be one of the following:(A) An officer of the Air Force on active duty in a grade not below the grade of colonel who possesses such qualifications as the Secretary considers appropriate and is assigned or detailed to such position.

(B) A member of the Senior Executive Service or a civilian individual, including an individual who was retired from the Air Force in a grade not below brigadier general, who has the qualifications appropriate for the position of Commandant and is selected by the Secretary as the best qualified from among candidates for the position in accordance with a process and criteria determined by the Secretary.


(3) Term for civilian commandant.—An individual selected for the position of Commandant under paragraph (2)(B) shall serve in that position for a term of not more than five years and may be continued in that position for an additional term of up to five years.


(b) Provost and Academic Dean.—(1) In general.—There is established at the United States Air Force Institute of Technology the civilian position of Provost and Academic Dean who shall be appointed by the Secretary.

(2) Term.—An individual appointed to the position of Provost and Academic Dean shall serve in that position for a term of five years.

(3) Compensation.—The individual serving as Provost and Academic Dean is entitled to such compensation for such service as the Secretary shall prescribe for purposes of this section, but not more than the rate of compensation authorized for level IV of the Executive Schedule.


(Added Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 554(a), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1414.)


References in TextLevel IV of the Executive Schedule, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is set out in section 5315 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


