§ 460l–1. Powers and duties of Secretary of the Interior
In order to carry out the purposes of this part, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to perform the following functions and activities:(a) Inventory and evaluation of needs and resourcesPrepare and maintain a continuing inventory and evaluation of outdoor recreation needs and resources of the United States.


(b) Classification of resourcesPrepare a system for classification of outdoor recreation resources to assist in the effective and beneficial use and management of such resources.


(c) Nationwide plan; contents; problems, solutions and actions; initial plan; revisions of plan; transmittal to Congress and GovernorsFormulate and maintain a comprehensive nationwide outdoor recreation plan, taking into consideration the plans of the various Federal agencies, States, and their political subdivisions. The plan shall set forth the needs and demands of the public for outdoor recreation and the current and foreseeable availability in the future of outdoor recreation resources to meet those needs. The plan shall identify critical outdoor recreation problems, recommend solutions, and recommend desirable actions to be taken at each level of government and by private interests. The Secretary shall transmit the initial plan, which shall be prepared as soon as practicable within five years on and after May 28, 1963, to the President for transmittal to the Congress. Future revisions of the plan shall be similarly transmitted at succeeding five-year intervals. When a plan or revision is transmitted to the Congress, the Secretary shall transmit copies to the Governors of the several States.


(d) Technical assistance and advice; cooperation with States and private interestsProvide technical assistance and advice to and cooperate with States, political subdivisions, and private interests, including nonprofit organizations, with respect to outdoor recreation.


(e) Interstate and regional cooperationEncourage interstate and regional cooperation in the planning, acquisition, and development of outdoor recreation resources.


(f) Research and education(1) Sponsor, engage in, and assist in research relating to outdoor recreation, directly or by contract or cooperative agreements, and make payments for such purposes without regard to the limitations of section 3324(a) and (b) of title 31 concerning advances of funds when he considers such action in the public interest, (2) undertake studies and assemble information concerning outdoor recreation, directly or by contract or cooperative agreement, and disseminate such information without regard to the provisions of section 3204 of title 39, and (3) cooperate with educational institutions and others in order to assist in establishing education programs and activities and to encourage public use and benefits from outdoor recreation.


(g) Federal interdepartmental cooperation; coordination of Federal plans and activities; expenditures; reimbursement(1) Cooperate with and provide technical assistance to Federal departments and agencies and obtain from them information, data, reports, advice, and assistance that are needed and can reasonably be furnished in carrying out the purposes of this part, and (2) promote coordination of Federal plans and activities generally relating to outdoor recreation. Any department or agency furnishing advice or assistance hereunder may expend its own funds for such purposes, with or without reimbursement, as may be agreed to by that agency.


(h) DonationsAccept and use donations of money, property, personal services, or facilities for the purposes of this part.


(Pub. L. 88–29, § 2, May 28, 1963, 77 Stat. 49; Pub. L. 91–375, § 6(h), Aug. 12, 1970, 84 Stat. 776.)

Codification
In subsec. (f), “section 3324(a) and (b) of title 31” substituted for “section 3648 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 529)” on authority of Pub. L. 97–258, § 4(b), Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1067, the first section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance.

Amendments1970—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 91–375 substituted “section 3204 of title 39” for “section 4154 of title 39”.

Effective Date of 1970 AmendmentFor effective date of amendment by Pub. L. 91–375, see section 15(a) of Pub. L. 91–375, set out as an Effective Dates note preceding section 101 of Title 39, Postal Service.

Termination of Reporting RequirementsFor termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec. (c) of this section relating to transmittal to Congress, at five-year intervals, of revisions of nationwide outdoor recreation plan, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66, as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and page 112 of House Document No. 103–7.

Study Regarding Improved Outdoor Recreational Access for Persons With DisabilitiesPub. L. 105–359, § 1, Nov. 10, 1998, 112 Stat. 3275, provided that:
“(a) Study Required.—The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior shall jointly conduct a study regarding ways to improve the access for persons with disabilities to outdoor recreational opportunities (such as fishing, hunting, trapping, wildlife viewing, hiking, boating, and camping) made available to the public on the Federal lands described in subsection (b).

“(b) Covered Federal Lands.—The Federal lands referred to in subsection (a) are the following:“(1) National Forest System lands.

“(2) Units of the National Park System.

“(3) Areas in the National Wildlife Refuge System.

“(4) Lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management.


“(c) Report on Study.—Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 10, 1998], the Secretaries shall submit to Congress a report containing the results of the study.”




Connecticut River National Recreation Area Feasibility StudyPub. L. 89–616, Oct. 3, 1966, 80 Stat. 867, directed Secretary of the Interior to study, investigate, and formulate recommendations on feasibility and desirability of establishing all or parts of Connecticut River Valley from its source to its mouth, in States of Connecticut, Massachusetts, Vermont, and New Hampshire, as a Connecticut River National Recreation Area and to submit to President, within two years after Oct. 3, 1966, a report of his findings and recommendations, with President to submit to Congress such recommendations, including legislation, as he deemed appropriate.


