§ 410ccc–2. Administration(a) In generalThe Secretary shall administer the historical park in accordance with this part and with provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and sections 461 to 467 of this title. The Secretary shall manage the historical park in such a manner as will preserve resources and cultural landscapes relating to the Creole culture of the Cane River and enhance public understanding of the important cultural heritage of the Cane River region.


(b) DonationsThe Secretary may accept and retain donations of funds, property, or services from individuals, foundations, or other public or private entities for the purposes of providing programs, services, facilities, or technical assistance that further the purposes of this subchapter. Any funds donated to the Secretary pursuant to this subsection may be expended without further appropriation.


(c) Interpretive centerThe Secretary is authorized to construct, operate, and maintain an interpretive center on lands identified by the Secretary pursuant to section 410ccc–1(b)(4) of this title. Such center shall provide for the general information and orientation needs of the historical park and the heritage area. The Secretary shall consult with the State of Louisiana, the City of Natchitoches, the Association for the Preservation of Historic Natchitoches, and the Cane River National Heritage Area Commission pursuant to section 410ccc–22 of this title in the planning and development of the interpretive center.


(d) Cooperative agreements and technical assistance(1) The Secretary, after consultation with the Cane River Heritage Area Commission 11 So in original. Probably should be “Cane River National Heritage Area Commission”. established pursuant to section 410ccc–22 of this title, is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with owners of properties within the heritage area and owners of properties within the historical park that provide important educational and interpretive opportunities relating to the heritage of the Cane River region. The Secretary may also enter into cooperative agreements for the purpose of facilitating the preservation of important historic sites and structures identified in the historical park’s general management plan or other heritage elements related to the heritage of the Cane River region. Such cooperative agreements shall specify that the National Park Service shall have reasonable rights of access for operational and visitor use needs and that preservation treatments will meet the Secretary’s standards for rehabilitation of historic buildings.

(2) The Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with the City of Natchitoches, the State of Louisiana, and other public or private organizations for the development of the interpretive center, educational programs, and other materials that will facilitate public use of the historical park and heritage area.


(e) ResearchThe Secretary, acting through the National Park Service, shall coordinate a comprehensive research program on the complex history of the Cane River region, including ethnography studies of the living communities along the Cane River, and how past and present generations have adapted to their environment, including genealogical studies of families within the Cane River area. Research shall include, but not be limited to, the extensive primary historic documents within the Natchitoches and Cane River areas, and curation methods for their care and exhibition. The research program shall be coordinated with Northwestern State University of Louisiana, and the National Center for Preservation of Technology and Training in Natchitoches.


(Pub. L. 103–449, title III, § 304, Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4758.)
