§ 410ll–1. Votes for Women Trail(a) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) ParkThe term “Park” means the Women’s Rights National Historical Park established by section 410ll of this title.


(2) SecretaryThe term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service.


(3) StateThe term “State” means the State of New York.


(4) TrailThe term “Trail” means the Votes for Women History Trail Route designated under subsection (b).



(b) Establishment of Trail RouteThe Secretary, with concurrence of the agency having jurisdiction over the relevant roads, may designate a vehicular tour route, to be known as the “Votes for Women History Trail Route”, to link properties in the State that are historically and thematically associated with the struggle for women’s suffrage in the United States.


(c) AdministrationThe Trail shall be administered by the National Park Service through the Park.


(d) ActivitiesTo facilitate the establishment of the Trail and the dissemination of information regarding the Trail, the Secretary shall—(1) produce and disseminate appropriate educational materials regarding the Trail, such as handbooks, maps, exhibits, signs, interpretive guides, and electronic information;

(2) coordinate the management, planning, and standards of the Trail in partnership with participating properties, other Federal agencies, and State and local governments;

(3) create and adopt an official, uniform symbol or device to mark the Trail; and

(4) issue guidelines for the use of the symbol or device adopted under paragraph (3).


(e) Elements of Trail RouteSubject to the consent of the owner of the property, the Secretary may designate as an official stop on the Trail—(1) all units and programs of the Park relating to the struggle for women’s suffrage;

(2) other Federal, State, local, and privately owned properties that the Secretary determines have a verifiable connection to the struggle for women’s suffrage; and

(3) other governmental and nongovernmental facilities and programs of an educational, commemorative, research, or interpretive nature that the Secretary determines to be directly related to the struggle for women’s suffrage.


(f) Cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding(1) In generalTo facilitate the establishment of the Trail and to ensure effective coordination of the Federal and non-Federal properties designated as stops along the Trail, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding with, and provide technical and financial assistance to, other Federal agencies, the State, localities, regional governmental bodies, and private entities.


(2) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as are necessary for the period of fiscal years 2009 through 2013 to provide financial assistance to cooperating entities pursuant to agreements or memoranda entered into under paragraph (1).



(Pub. L. 96–607, title XVI, § 1602, as added Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, § 7111(a), Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1199.)
