§ 460hhh–4. Management plan(a) In general(1) ProceduresNot later than 3 full fiscal years after August 4, 1993, the Secretary shall develop a general management plan for the Recreation Area as an amendment to the Toiyabe National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan. Such an amendment shall reflect the establishment of the Recreation Area and be consistent with the provisions of this subchapter, except that nothing in this subchapter shall require the Secretary to revise the Toiyabe National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan pursuant to section 1604 of this title. The provisions of the national forest land and resource management plan relating to the recreation 11 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. area 1 shall also be available to the public in a document separate from the rest of the forest plan.


(2) ContentsThe management plan described in paragraph (1) shall be developed with full public participation and shall include—(A) implementation plans for a continuing program of interpretation and public education about the resources and values of the Recreation Area;

(B) proposals for public facilities to be developed, expanded, or improved for the Recreation Area, including one or more visitor centers to accommodate both local and out-of-State visitors;

(C) plans for the management of natural and cultural resources in the Recreation Area, with emphasis on the preservation and long-term scientific use of archaeological resources, with priority in development given to the enforcement of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa et seq.) and the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) within the Recreation Area;

(D) wildlife and fish resource management plans for the Recreation Area prepared in consultation with appropriate departments of the State of Nevada and using other available studies of the Recreation Area;

(E) recreation management plans for the Recreation Area in consultation with appropriate departments of the State of Nevada;

(F) wild horse and burro herd management plans for the Recreation Area prepared in consultation with appropriate departments and commissions of the State of Nevada; and

(G) an inventory of all lands within the Recreation Area not presently managed as National Forest lands that will permit the Secretary to evaluate possible future acquisitions.


(3) ConsultationThe plans for the management of natural and cultural resources described in paragraph (2)(C) shall be prepared in consultation with the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation established by title II of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470i et seq.) and the Nevada State Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, Division of Historic Preservation and Archaeology.



(b) Wilderness study areas(1) RecommendationsThe general management plan for the Recreation Area shall include the recommendations of the Bureau of Land Management as to the suitability or nonsuitability for preservation as wilderness those lands within the Recreation Area identified as the Mt. Stirling, La Madre Mountains, and Pine Creek Wilderness Study Areas on the Bureau of Land Management Wilderness Status Map, dated March 1990.


(2) ManagementPending submission of a recommendation and until otherwise directed by Act of Congress, the Secretary, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall manage the lands and waters within the wilderness study areas referred to in paragraph (1) so as to maintain their potential for inclusion within the National Wilderness Preservation System.



(Pub. L. 103–63, § 6, Aug. 4, 1993, 107 Stat. 298.)


References in TextThe Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(C), is Pub. L. 96–95, Oct. 31, 1979, 93 Stat. 721, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 1B (§ 470aa et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 470aa of this title and Tables.
The National Historic Preservation Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(C) and (3), is Pub. L. 89–665, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 470 et seq.) of chapter 1A of this title. Title II of the Act is classified generally to part B (§ 470i et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 1A of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 470(a) of this title and Tables.


