“SEC. 211. COMMENCING OF ACTION FOR RELIEF.“(a) Filing of Petition.—“(1) In general.—A petition requesting action under this subtitle for the purpose of adjusting to the obligations of the United States under the Agreement may be filed with the Commission by an entity, including a trade association, firm, certified or recognized union, or group of workers that is representative of an industry. The Commission shall transmit a copy of any petition filed under this subsection to the United States Trade Representative.

“(2) Provisional relief.—An entity filing a petition under this subsection may request that provisional relief be provided as if the petition had been filed under section 202(a) of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2252(a)].

“(3) Critical circumstances.—Any allegation that critical circumstances exist shall be included in the petition.


“(b) Investigation and Determination.—“(1) In general.—Upon the filing of a petition under subsection (a), the Commission, unless subsection (d) applies, shall promptly initiate an investigation to determine whether, as a result of the reduction or elimination of a duty provided for under the Agreement, a Jordanian article is being imported into the United States in such increased quantities, in absolute terms or relative to domestic production, and under such conditions that imports of the Jordanian article alone constitute a substantial cause of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry producing an article that is like, or directly competitive with, the imported article.

“(2) Causation.—For purposes of this subtitle, a Jordanian article is being imported into the United States in increased quantities as a result of the reduction or elimination of a duty provided for under the Agreement if the reduction or elimination is a cause that contributes significantly to the increase in imports. Such cause need not be equal to or greater than any other cause.


“(c) Applicable Provisions.—The following provisions of section 202 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2252) apply with respect to any investigation initiated under subsection (b):“(1) Paragraphs (1)(B) and (3) of subsection (b).

“(2) Subsection (c).

“(3) Subsection (d).


“(d) Articles Exempt From Investigation.—No investigation may be initiated under this section with respect to any Jordanian article if import relief has been provided under this subtitle with respect to that article.

