§ 1725. Resource assistants(a) AuthorizationThe Secretary is authorized to provide individual placements of resource assistants with any Federal land managing agency under the jurisdiction of the Secretary to carry out research or resource protection activities on behalf of the agency. To be eligible for selection as a resource assistant, an individual must be at least 17 years of age. The Secretary may select resource assistants without regard to the civil service and classification laws, rules, or regulations of the United States. The Secretary shall give a preference to the selection of individuals who are enrolled in an institution of higher education or are recent graduates from an institution of higher education, with particular attention given to ensure full representation of women and participants from historically black, Hispanic, and Native American schools.


(b) Use of existing nonprofit organizationsWhenever one or more existing nonprofit organizations can provide, in the judgment of the the 11 So in original. Secretary, appropriate recruitment and placement services to fulfill the requirements of this section, the Secretary may implement this section through such existing organizations. Participating nonprofit organizations shall contribute to the expenses of providing and supporting the resource assistants, through private sources of funding, at a level equal to 25 percent of the total costs of each participant in the Resource Assistant program who has been recruited and placed through that organization. Any such participating nonprofit conservation service organization shall be required, by the respective land managing agency, to submit an annual report evaluating the scope, size, and quality of the program, including the value of work contributed by the Resource Assistants, to the mission of the agency.


(Pub. L. 91–378, title II, § 206, as added Pub. L. 103–82, title I, § 105(6), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 852; amended Pub. L. 109–154, § 2(g)(3), Dec. 30, 2005, 119 Stat. 2893.)

Amendments2005—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 109–154, § 2(g)(3)(A), substituted “Secretary is” for “Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture are each”, “the Secretary to carry out” for “such Secretary to carry out”, “Secretary may” for “Secretaries may”, and “Secretary shall” for “Secretaries shall”.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 109–154, § 2(g)(3)(B), substituted “the Secretary, appropriate” for “Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture, appropriate”.


