“SEC. 6. PROTECTION OF EVERGLADES NATIONAL PARK.“(a) Environmental Protection and Access Requirements.—“(1) In general.—The MRA shall remain within the boundaries of the Park and be a part of the Park in a manner consistent with this Act.

“(2) Compliance with applicable laws.—The Tribe shall be responsible for compliance with all applicable laws, except as otherwise provided by this Act.

“(3) Prevention of degradation; abatement.—“(A) Prevention of degradation.—Pursuant to the requirements of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), the Tribe shall prevent and abate degradation of the quality of surface or groundwater that is released into other parts of the Park, as follows:“(i) With respect to water entering the MRA which fails to meet applicable water quality standards approved by the Administrator under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), actions of the Tribe shall not further degrade water quality.

“(ii) With respect to water entering the MRA which meets applicable water quality standards approved by the Administrator under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), the Tribe shall not cause the water to fail to comply with applicable water quality standards.


“(B) Prevention and abatement.—The Tribe shall prevent and abate disruption of the restoration or preservation of the quantity, timing, or distribution of surface or groundwater that would enter the MRA and flow, directly or indirectly, into other parts of the Park, but only to the extent that such disruption is caused by conditions, activities, or structures within the MRA.

“(C) Prevention of significant propagation of exotic plants and animals.—The Tribe shall prevent significant propagation of exotic plants or animals outside the MRA that may otherwise be caused by conditions, activities, or structures within the MRA.

“(D) Public access to certain areas of the park.—The Tribe shall not impede public access to those areas of the Park outside the boundaries of the MRA, and to and from the Big Cypress National Preserve, except that the Tribe shall not be required to allow individuals who are not members of the Tribe access to the MRA other than Federal employees, agents, officers, and officials (as provided in this Act).

“(E) Prevention of significant cumulative adverse environmental impacts.—“(i) In general.—The Tribe shall prevent and abate any significant cumulative adverse environmental impact on the Park outside the MRA resulting from development or other activities within the MRA.

“(ii) Procedures.—Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 1998], the Tribe shall develop, publish, and implement procedures that shall ensure adequate public notice and opportunity to comment on major tribal actions within the MRA that may contribute to a significant cumulative adverse impact on the Everglades ecosystem.

“(iii) Written notice.—The procedures in clause (ii) shall include timely written notice to the Secretary and consideration of the Secretary’s comments.


“(F) Water quality standards.—“(i) In general.—Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 1998], the Tribe shall adopt and comply with water quality standards within the MRA that are at least as protective as the water quality standards for the area encompassed by Everglades National Park approved by the Administrator under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.).

“(ii) Tribal water quality standards.—The Tribe may not adopt water quality standards for the MRA under clause (i) that are more restrictive than the water quality standards adopted by the Tribe for contiguous reservation lands that are not within the Park.

“(iii) Effect of failure to adopt or prescribe standards.—In the event the Tribe fails to adopt water quality standards referred to in clause (i), the water quality standards applicable to the Everglades National Park, approved by the Administrator under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), shall be deemed to apply by operation of Federal law to the MRA until such time as the Tribe adopts water quality standards that meet the requirements of this subparagraph.

“(iv) Modification of standards.—If, after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 1998], the standards referred to in clause (iii) are revised, not later than 1 year after those standards are revised, the Tribe shall make such revisions to water quality standards of the Tribe as are necessary to ensure that those water quality standards are at least as protective as the revised water quality standards approved by the Administrator.

“(v) Effect of failure to modify water quality standards.—If the Tribe fails to revise water quality standards in accordance with clause (iv), the revised water quality standards applicable to the Everglades Park, approved by the Administrator under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) shall be deemed to apply by operation of Federal law to the MRA until such time as the Tribe adopts water quality standards that are at least as protective as the revised water quality standards approved by the Administrator.


“(G) Natural easements.—The Tribe shall not engage in any construction, development, or improvement in any area that is designated as a natural easement.



“(b) Height Restrictions.—“(1) Restrictions.—Except as provided in paragraphs (2) through (4), no structure constructed within the MRA shall exceed the height of 45 feet or exceed 2 stories, except that a structure within the Miccosukee Government Center, as shown on the map referred to in section 4(4), shall not exceed the height of 70 feet.

“(2) Exceptions.—The following types of structures are exempt from the restrictions of this section to the extent necessary for the health, safety, or welfare of the tribal members, and for the utility of the structures:“(A) Water towers or standpipes.

“(B) Radio towers.

“(C) Utility lines.


“(3) Waiver.—The Secretary may waive the restrictions of this subsection if the Secretary finds that the needs of the Tribe for the structure that is taller than structures allowed under the restrictions would outweigh the adverse effects to the Park or its visitors.

“(4) Grandfather clause.—Any structure approved by the Secretary before the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 1998], and for which construction commences not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, shall not be subject to the provisions of this subsection.

“(5) Measurement.—The heights specified in this subsection shall be measured from mean sea level.


“(c) Other Conditions.—“(1) Gaming.—No class II or class III gaming (as those terms are defined in section 4(7) and (8) of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703(7) and (8)) shall be conducted within the MRA.

“(2) Aviation.—“(A) In general.—No commercial aviation may be conducted from or to the MRA.

“(B) Emergency operators.—Takeoffs and landings of aircraft shall be allowed for emergency operations and administrative use by the Tribe or the United States, including resource management and law enforcement.

“(C) State agencies and officials.—The Tribe may permit the State of Florida, as agencies or municipalities of the State of Florida to provide for takeoffs or landings of aircraft on the MRA for emergency operations or administrative purposes.


“(3) Visual quality.—“(A) In general.—In the planning, use, and development of the MRA by the Tribe, the Tribe shall consider the quality of the visual experience from the Shark River Valley visitor use area, including limitations on the height and locations of billboards or other commercial signs or other advertisements visible from the Shark Valley visitor center, tram road, or observation tower.

“(B) Exemption of markings.—The Tribe may exempt markings on a water tower or standpipe that merely identify the Tribe.



“(d) Easements and Ranger Station.—Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the following provisions shall apply:“(1) Natural easements.—“(A) In general.—The use and occupancy of the MRA by the Tribe shall be perpetually subject to natural easements on parcels of land that are—“(i) bounded on the north and south by the boundaries of the MRA, specified in the legal description under section 4(4); and

“(ii) bounded on the east and west by boundaries that run perpendicular to the northern and southern boundaries of the MRA, as provided in the description under subparagraph (B).


“(B) Description.—The description referred to in subparagraph (A)(ii) is as follows:“(i) Easement number 1, being 445 feet wide with western boundary 525 feet, and eastern boundary 970 feet, east of the western boundary of the MRA.

“(ii) Easement number 2, being 443 feet wide with western boundary 3,637 feet, and eastern boundary 4,080 feet, east of the western boundary of the MRA.

“(iii) Easement number 3, being 320 feet wide with western boundary 5,380 feet, and eastern boundary 5,700 feet, east of the western boundary of the MRA.

“(iv) Easement number 4, being 290 feet wide with western boundary 6,020 feet, and eastern boundary 6,310 feet, east of the western boundary of the MRA.

“(v) Easement number 5, being 290 feet wide with western boundary 8,170 feet, and eastern boundary 8,460 feet, east of the western boundary of the MRA.

“(vi) Easement number 6, being 312 feet wide with western boundary 8,920 feet, and eastern boundary 9,232 feet, east of the western boundary of the MRA.



“(2) Extent of easements.—The aggregate extent of the east-west parcels of lands subject to easements under paragraph (1) shall not exceed 2,100 linear feet, as depicted on the map referred to in section 4(4).

“(3) Use of easements.—At the discretion of the Secretary, the Secretary may use the natural easements specified in paragraph (1) to fulfill a hydrological or other environmental objective of the Everglades National Park.

“(4) Additional requirements.—In addition to providing for the easements specified in paragraph (1), the Tribe shall not impair or impede the continued function of the water control structures designated as ‘S–12A’ and ‘S–12B’, located north of the MRA on the Tamiami Trail and any existing water flow ways under the Old Tamiami Trail.

“(5) Use by department of the interior.—The Department of the Interior shall have a right, in perpetuity, to use and occupy, and to have vehicular and airboat access to, the Tamiami Ranger Station identified on the map referred to in section 4(4), except that the pad on which such station is constructed shall not be increased in size without the consent of the Tribe.


