§ 68d. Enforcement of subchapter(a) Authority of CommissionExcept as otherwise specifically provided herein, this subchapter shall be enforced by the Federal Trade Commission under rules, regulations, and procedure provided for in the Federal Trade Commission Act.
The Commission is authorized and directed to prevent any person from violating the provisions of this subchapter in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act were incorporated into and made a part of this subchapter; and any such person violating the provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in said Federal Trade Commission Act in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though the applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act were incorporated into and made a part of this subchapter.
The Commission is authorized and directed to make rules and regulations for the manner and form of disclosing information required by this subchapter, and for segregation of such information for different portions of a wool product as may be necessary to avoid deception or confusion, and to make such further rules and regulations under and in pursuance of the terms of this subchapter as may be necessary and proper for administration and enforcement.
The Commission is also authorized to cause inspections, analyses, tests, and examinations to be made of any wool products subject to this subchapter; and to cooperate with any department or agency of the Government, with any State, Territory, or possession, or with the District of Columbia; or with any department, agency, or political subdivision thereof; or with any person.


(b) Maintenance of records by wool manufacturersEvery manufacturer of wool products shall maintain proper records showing the fiber content as required by this subchapter of all wool products made by him, and shall preserve such records for at least three years.
The neglect or refusal to maintain and so preserve such records is unlawful, and any such manufacturer who neglects or refuses to maintain and so preserve such records shall forfeit to the United States the sum of $100 for each day of such failure, which shall accrue to the United States and be recoverable in a civil action.


(Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 871, § 6, 54 Stat. 1131.)


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions of Federal Trade Commission, with certain exceptions, to Chairman of such Commission, see Reorg. Plan No. 8 of 1950, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3175, 64 Stat. 1264, set out under section 41 of this title.


