§ 3195. Cooperative information and education centers
The Secretary is authorized in consultation with other Federal agencies, to investigate and plan for an information and education center for visitors to Alaska on not to exceed one thousand acres of Federal land at a site adjacent to the Alaska Highway, and to investigate and plan for similar centers in Anchorage and Fairbanks, Alaska. For the purposes of this investigation, the Secretary shall seek participation in the program planning and/or operation of such centers from appropriate agencies of the State of Alaska, and he is authorized to accept contributions of funds, personnel, and planning and program assistance from such State agencies, other Federal agencies, and Native representatives. The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to investigate and plan for, in a similar manner, an information and education center for visitors to Alaska in either Juneau, Ketchikan, or Sitka, Alaska. No information center shall be developed pursuant to investigations and plans conducted under authority of this section unless and until such development is specifically authorized by Congress.
(Pub. L. 96–487, title XIII, § 1305, Dec. 2, 1980, 94 Stat. 2478.)

Authorization of Appropriations; Purposes of Center; Operation of Center; Development PlansPub. L. 99–664, § 11, Nov. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 4308, provided that:
“(a) Authorization.—There is hereby authorized to be appropriated $250,000 to be used by the Secretary of Agriculture to conduct surveys, develop designs, and carry out other preliminary work related to the establishment of an Information and Education Center provided for in section 1305 of Public Law 96–487 [16 U.S.C. 3195].

“(b) Purposes.—The purposes of the Center authorized by subsection (a) shall be—“(1) to collect and disseminate to visitors to and residents of Alaska information about the natural, recreational, cultural, historical, archeological, multiple use, and other resources and values of Alaska, with special emphasis on the Tongass National Forest and Southeast Alaska and its people;

“(2) to publicly display temporary and permanent exhibits illustrating and interpreting these resources and values;

“(3) to foster educational programs relating to the heritage resources of Alaska including those pertaining to Alaska Native peoples with particular emphasis on the Haida, Tshimshian, and Tglingit peoples of Southeast Alaska.


“(c) Design.—Design of the center in subsection (a) shall be developed in consultation with other appropriate Federal agencies, the Alaska Division of Tourism and other appropriate agencies of the State of Alaska, the local government of the city in which such center is to be located, and southeast Alaska Native organizations.

“(d) Consultation.—In establishing, operating, and maintaining the center (and any affiliated branches), the Secretary of Agriculture shall consult with, in addition to those listed in subsection (c), Alaska colleges and universities, the National Historic Association of Alaska, the Alaska Federation of Natives, and appropriate individuals and other organizations concerned with the diverse heritage resources of Alaska.

“(e) Cooperative Agreements.—The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with those individuals and organizations listed in subsections (c) and (d) to facilitate carrying out the purposes of the Center.

“(f) Development Plan.—Within one year after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 17, 1986], and after consultation with the individuals and organizations listed in subsections (c) and (d), the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to Congress a development plan for the Center along with an estimate of the cost.”





