§ 460nnn–22. Roads and travel access(a) Transportation planThe management plan shall include, as an integral part, a comprehensive transportation plan for the Federal lands included in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area, which shall address the maintenance, improvement, and closure of roads and trails as well as travel access.


(b) Prohibition on off-road motorized travel(1) ProhibitionThe use of motorized or mechanized vehicles on Federal lands included in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area—(A) is prohibited off road; and

(B) is limited to such roads and trails as may be designated for their use as part of the management plan.


(2) ExceptionsParagraph (1) does not prohibit the use of motorized or mechanized vehicles on Federal lands included in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area if the Secretary determines that such use—(A) is needed for administrative purposes or to respond to an emergency; or

(B) is appropriate for the construction or maintenance of agricultural facilities, fish and wildlife management, or ecological restoration projects, except in areas designated as wilderness or managed under the provisions of section 1782(c) of title 43.



(c) Road closuresAny determination to permanently close an existing road in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area or to restrict the access of motorized or mechanized vehicles on certain roads shall be made in consultation with the advisory council and the public.


(d) Prohibition on new construction(1) Prohibition, exceptionNo new road or trail for motorized or mechanized vehicles may be constructed on Federal lands in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area unless the Secretary determines that the road or trail is necessary for public safety or protection of the environment. Any determination under this subsection shall be made in consultation with the advisory council and the public.


(2) TrailsNothing in this subsection is intended to limit the authority of the Secretary to construct or maintain trails for nonmotorized or nonmechanized use.



(e) Access to nonfederally owned lands(1) Reasonable accessThe Secretary shall provide reasonable access to nonfederally owned lands or interests in land within the boundaries of the Cooperative Management and Protection Area and the Wilderness Area to provide the owner of the land or interest the reasonable use thereof.


(2) Effect on existing rights-of-wayNothing in this subchapter shall have the effect of terminating any valid existing right-of-way on Federal lands included in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area.



(Pub. L. 106–399, title I, § 112, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1660.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsec. (e)(2), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 106–399, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1655, known as the Steens Mountain Cooperative Management and Protection Act of 2000, which is classified generally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 460nnn of this title and Tables.


