§ 410qq–2. Administration(a) In generalThe Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with this subchapter and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title. In the administration of the park, the Secretary may utilize such statutory authority available to him for the conservation of wildlife and natural and cultural resources as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter, except that he may not acquire any lands or waters or interests therein for purposes of the park other than by lease.


(b) Traditional subsistence uses(1) Agricultural, cultural, and gathering uses shall be permitted in the park for subsistence purposes if such uses are generally prior existing uses conducted in areas used for such purposes as of October 31, 1988, and if such uses are conducted in the traditional manner and by traditional methods. No such uses shall be permitted in the park for other than subsistence purposes.

(2) Subsistence uses of the marine areas of the park shall also be permitted in accordance with paragraph (1), and no fishing or gathering shall be permitted in such marine areas for other than subsistence purposes.


(c) Interpretive facilities, etc.Interpretative activities and interpretative facilities for the park (including maps) shall be in at least the following languages: English and Samoan.


(d) Employees and contractsIn addition to the Secretary’s authority to employ persons to carry out provisions of this subchapter in accordance with the civil service laws, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary is authorized to—(1) hire employees for such purposes who shall not be subject to the civil service laws, including quotas, and

(2) enter into contracts with individuals for purposes of exercising any authority of the Secretary within the park.


(e) Native American Samoan personnelThe Secretary shall establish a program to train native American Samoan personnel to function as professional park service employees, to provide services to visitors (including the interpretation of park resources), and operate and maintain park facilities. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and to the extent practicable the Secretary shall extend a preference for the hiring of native American Samoans to carry out the Secretary’s authorities under this subchapter (including both employees and persons operating under contract).


(f) Management planThe Secretary, in cooperation with the Governor of American Samoa, shall prepare a general management plan for the park. The plan shall comply with section 1a–7(b) of this title and shall contain specific measures for the protection and preservation of tropical forest resources and archaeological and cultural resources within the park, including, but not limited to, protection of flying foxes and measures to enhance visitation to the park from throughout the world, to the extent consistent with the protection and preservation of such resources.


(g) Advisory Board(1) The Secretary shall establish an Advisory Board to provide advice to the Secretary regarding the management of the park. The Advisory Board shall be comprised of 5 members, 3 of whom shall be nominated by the Governor of American Samoa. The Advisory Board shall designate one of its members as Chairman.

(2) The Advisory Board shall meet on a regular basis. Notice of meetings and agenda shall be announced in advance and meetings shall be held at locations and in such a manner as to insure adequate public involvement.

(3) Members of the Advisory Board shall serve without compensation as such, but the Secretary may pay expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out their responsibilities under this subchapter on vouchers signed by the Chairman.

(4) The provisions of section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Act of October 6, 1972; 86 Stat. 776), are hereby waived with respect to this Advisory Board.


(h) ReviewAt least every 10 years, the Secretary and the Governor, or their designees, shall review the operation and management of the park. Such review shall include, but need not be limited to, consideration of how the objectives of the park can better be achieved, the need for additional technical or other assistance, cooperative arrangements between the Government of American Samoa and the National Park Service in the interpretation and management of the park, and the desirability of extension of the lease arrangement.


(i) Technical assistanceThe Secretary, in providing technical or other assistance to the Government of American Samoa may use any authority otherwise provided to him, including requesting assistance from other Federal agencies.


(Pub. L. 100–571, § 3, Oct. 31, 1988, 102 Stat. 2881.)


References in TextSection 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (g)(4), is section 14(b) of Pub. L. 92–463, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5.

Termination of Advisory BoardsAdvisory boards established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a board established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such board is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a board established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 3(2) and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


