§ 774. Reports and recommendations(a) Administrator’s initial submittal to President and CongressNot later than one year after the effective date of this chapter, the Administrator shall submit a report to the President and Congress which will provide a complete and independent analysis of actual oil and gas reserves and resources in the United States and its Outer Continental Shelf, as well as of the existing productive capacity and the extent to which such capacity could be increased for crude oil and each major petroleum product each year for the next ten years through full utilization of available technology and capacity. The report shall also contain the Administration’s recommendations for improving the utilization and effectiveness of Federal energy data and its manner of collection. The data collection and analysis portion of this report shall be prepared by the Federal Trade Commission for the Administration. Unless specifically prohibited by law, all Federal agencies shall make available estimates, statistics, data and other information in their files which, in the judgment of the Commission or Administration, are necessary for the purposes of this subsection.


(b) Administrator’s annual report to Congress; contentsThe Administrator shall prepare and submit directly to the Congress and the President every year after May 7, 1974, a report which shall include—(1) a review and analysis of the major actions taken by the Administrator;

(2) an analysis of the impact these actions have had on the Nation’s civilian requirements for energy supplies for materials and commodities;

(3) a projection of the energy supply for the midterm and long term for each of the major types of fuel and the potential size and impact of any anticipated shortages, including recommendations for measures to—(A) minimize deficiencies of energy supplies in relation to needs;

(B) maintain the health and safety of citizens;

(C) maintain production and employment at the highest feasible level;

(D) equitably share the burden of shortages among individuals and business firms; and

(E) minimize any distortion of voluntary choices of individuals and firms;


(4) a summary listing of all recipients of funds and the amount thereof within the preceding period;

(5) a summary listing of information-gathering activities conducted under section 772 of this title; and

(6) an analysis of the energy needs of the United States and the methods by which such needs can be met, including both tax and nontax proposals and energy conservation strategies.


In the first annual report submitted after August 14, 1976, the Administrator shall include in such report with respect to the analysis referred to in paragraph (6) a specific discussion of the utility and relative benefits of employing a Btu tax as a means for obtaining national energy goals.

(c) Citizen fuel use; summer guidelinesNot later than thirty days after the effective date of this chapter, the Administrator shall issue preliminary summer guidelines for citizen fuel use.


(d) Administrator’s interim reports to CongressThe Administrator shall provide interim reports to the Congress from time to time and when requested by committees of Congress.


(e) Energy needs analysis; time for submission; contents; continuation of analysis after termination of AdministrationThe analysis referred to in subsection (b)(6) of this section shall include, for each of the next five fiscal years following the year in which the annual report is submitted and for the tenth fiscal year following such year—(1) the effect of various conservation programs on such energy needs;

(2) the alternate methods of meeting the energy needs identified in such annual report and of—(A) the relative capital and other economic costs of each such method;

(B) the relative environmental, national security, and balance-of-trade risks of each such method;

(C) the other relevant advantages and disadvantages of each such method; and


(3) recommendations for the best method or methods of meeting the energy needs identified in such annual report and for legislation needed to meet those needs.


Notwithstanding the termination of this chapter, the President shall designate an appropriate Federal agency to conduct the analysis specified in subsection (b)(6) of this section.

(Pub. L. 93–275, § 15, May 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 108; Pub. L. 94–385, title I, § 109(a)–(c), Aug. 14, 1976, 90 Stat. 1130.)


References in TextFor effective date of this chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (c), see Effective and Termination Dates note set out under section 761 of this title.

Amendments1976—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 94–385, § 109(a), redesignated subsec. (b) as (a) and struck out former subsec. (a) relating to submission of a report by the President to Congress with recommendations for disposition, continuation, or reorganization of Energy Administration and organization of the Federal Government for the management of energy and natural resources policies and programs.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 94–385, § 109(a)(2), (b), redesignated subsec. (c) as (b) and added par. (6) and provisions requiring Administrator to include in report a discussion on benefits of employing a utility and Btu tax as a means for obtaining national energy goals. Former subsec. (b) redesignated (a).
Subsecs. (c) to (e). Pub. L. 94–385, § 109(a)(2), (c), redesignated subsecs. (c) to (e) as (b) to (d), respectively, and added new subsec. (e).


Transfer of Functions
Federal Energy Administration terminated and functions vested by law in Administrator thereof transferred to Secretary of Energy (unless otherwise specifically provided) by sections 7151(a) and 7293 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.


