§ 1074. Medical and dental care for members and certain former members(a)(1) Under joint regulations to be prescribed by the administering Secretaries, a member of a uniformed service described in paragraph (2) is entitled to medical and dental care in any facility of any uniformed service.

(2) Members of the uniformed services referred to in paragraph (1) are as follows:(A) A member of a uniformed service on active duty.

(B) A member of a reserve component of a uniformed service who has been commissioned as an officer if—(i) the member has requested orders to active duty for the member’s initial period of active duty following the commissioning of the member as an officer;

(ii) the request for orders has been approved;

(iii) the orders are to be issued but have not been issued or the orders have been issued but the member has not entered active duty; and

(iv) the member does not have health care insurance and is not covered by any other health benefits plan.




(b)(1) Under joint regulations to be prescribed by the administering Secretaries, a member or former member of a uniformed service who is entitled to retired or retainer pay, or equivalent pay may, upon request, be given medical and dental care in any facility of any uniformed service, subject to the availability of space and facilities and the capabilities of the medical and dental staff. The administering Secretaries may, with the agreement of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, provide care to persons covered by this subsection in facilities operated by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and determined by him to be available for this purpose on a reimbursable basis at rates approved by the President.

(2) Paragraph (1) does not apply to a member or former member entitled to retired pay for non-regular service under chapter 1223 of this title who is under 60 years of age.


(c)(1) Funds appropriated to a military department, the Department of Homeland Security (with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy), or the Department of Health and Human Services (with respect to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Public Health Service) may be used to provide medical and dental care to persons entitled to such care by law or regulations, including the provision of such care (other than elective private treatment) in private facilities for members of the uniformed services. If a private facility or health care provider providing care under this subsection is a health care provider under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, the Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the other administering Secretaries, may by regulation require the private facility or health care provider to provide such care in accordance with the same payment rules (subject to any modifications considered appropriate by the Secretary) as apply under that program.

(2)(A) Subject to such exceptions as the Secretary of Defense considers necessary, coverage for medical care for members of the uniformed services under this subsection, and standards with respect to timely access to such care, shall be comparable to coverage for medical care and standards for timely access to such care under the managed care option of the TRICARE program known as TRICARE Prime.

(B) The Secretary of Defense shall enter into arrangements with contractors under the TRICARE program or with other appropriate contractors for the timely and efficient processing of claims under this subsection.

(C) The Secretary of Defense shall consult with the other administering Secretaries in the administration of this paragraph.


(3)(A) A member of the uniformed services described in subparagraph (B) may not be required to receive routine primary medical care at a military medical treatment facility.

(B) A member referred to in subparagraph (A) is a member of the uniformed services on active duty who is entitled to medical care under this subsection and who—(i) receives a duty assignment described in subparagraph (C); and

(ii) pursuant to the assignment of such duty, resides at a location that is more than 50 miles, or approximately one hour of driving time, from the nearest military medical treatment facility adequate to provide the needed care.


(C) A duty assignment referred to in subparagraph (B) means any of the following:(i) Permanent duty as a recruiter.

(ii) Permanent duty at an educational institution to instruct, administer a program of instruction, or provide administrative services in support of a program of instruction for the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps.

(iii) Permanent duty as a full-time adviser to a unit of a reserve component.

(iv) Any other permanent duty designated by the Secretary concerned for purposes of this paragraph.



(4)(A) Subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate, coverage comparable to that provided by the Secretary under subsections (d) and (e) of section 1079 of this title shall be provided under this subsection to members of the uniformed services who incur a serious injury or illness on active duty as defined by regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

(B) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe in regulations—(i) the individuals who shall be treated as the primary caregivers of a member of the uniformed services for purposes of this paragraph; and

(ii) the definition of serious injury or illness for the purposes of this paragraph.




(d)(1) For the purposes of this chapter, a member of a reserve component of the armed forces who is issued a delayed-effective-date active-duty order, or is covered by such an order, shall be treated as being on active duty for a period of more than 30 days beginning on the later of the date that is—(A) the date of the issuance of such order; or

(B) 180 days before the date on which the period of active duty is to commence under such order for that member.


(2) In this subsection, the term “delayed-effective-date active-duty order” means an order to active duty for a period of more than 30 days in support of a contingency operation under a provision of law referred to in section 101(a)(13)(B) of this title that provides for active-duty service to begin under such order on a date after the date of the issuance of the order.


(Added Pub. L. 85–861, § 1(25)(B), Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1446; amended Pub. L. 89–614, § 2(2), Sept. 30, 1966, 80 Stat. 862; Pub. L. 96–513, title V, § 511(36), (37), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2923; Pub. L. 98–525, title XIV, § 1401(e)(1), Oct. 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 2616; Pub. L. 98–557, § 19(3), Oct. 30, 1984, 98 Stat. 2869; Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title VII, § 729, title XVI, § 1621(a)(2), Nov. 29, 1989, 103 Stat. 1481, 1603; Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title XIV, § 1484(j)(1), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1718; Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title VII, § 723, Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 377; Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title VII, § 725(d), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2596; Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title VII, § 731(a)(1), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1810; Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A], title VII, § 722(a)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–185; Pub. L. 107–296, title XVII, § 1704(b)(1), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2314; Pub. L. 108–106, title I, § 1116, Nov. 6, 2003, 117 Stat. 1218; Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title VII, §§ 703, 708, Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1527, 1530; Pub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VII, § 703, Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 1982; Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VII, § 743(a), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3360; Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title VI, § 647(b), title XVI, § 1633(a), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 161, 459; Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title VII, § 702, Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2373.)











Historical and Revision Notes


Revised sectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


1074(a)1074(b)37:421(a).37:402(a)(3) (as applicable to 37:421(b)).37:421(b).June 7, 1956, ch. 374, §§ 102(a)(3) (as applicable to § 301(b)), 301(a), (b), 70 Stat. 250, 253.


In subsection (a), words of entitlement are substituted for the correlative words of obligation.
In subsection (b), the words “active duty (other than for training)” are substituted for the words “active duty as defined in section 901(b) of Title 50” to reflect section 101(22) of this title. The words “and dental” are inserted before the word “staff” for clarity. The words “retirement” and “retirement pay” are omitted as surplusage.

Prior ProvisionsProvisions similar to those in subsec. (c) of this section were contained in Pub. L. 98–212, title VII, § 735, Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1444, which was formerly set out as a note under section 138 [now 114] of this title, and which was amended by Pub. L. 98–525, title XIV, §§ 1403(a)(2), 1404, Oct. 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 2621, eff. Oct. 1, 1985, to strike out these provisions.
A prior section 1074, act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 82, related to enactment of legislation relating to voting in other elections, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 85–861, § 36B(5), Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1570, as superseded by the Federal Voting Assistance Act of 1955 which is classified to subchapter I–D (§ 1973cc et seq.) of chapter 20 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.

Amendments2009—Subsec. (d)(1)(B). Pub. L. 111–84 substituted “180 days” for “90 days”.
2008—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 110–181, § 647(b), designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).
Subsec. (c)(4). Pub. L. 110–181, § 1633(a), added par. (4).
2006—Subsec. (a)(2)(B)(iii). Pub. L. 109–163 inserted “or the orders have been issued but the member has not entered active duty” before semicolon at end.
2004—Subsec. (d)(3). Pub. L. 108–375 struck out par. (3) which read as follows: “This subsection shall cease to be effective on December 31, 2004.”
2003—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 108–136, § 708, inserted “(1)” after “(a)”, substituted “described in paragraph (2)” for “who is on active duty”, and added par. (2).
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 108–136, § 703, amended subsec. (d) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (d) read as follows:
“(1) For the purposes of this chapter, a member of a reserve component of the armed forces who is issued a delayed-effective-date active-duty order, or is covered by such an order, shall be treated as being on active duty for a period of more than 30 days beginning on the later of the date that is—
“(A) the date of the issuance of such order; or
“(B) 90 days before date on which the period of active duty is to commence under such order for that member.
“(2) In this subsection, the term ‘delayed-effective-date active-duty order’ means an order to active duty for a period of more than 30 days in support of a contingency operation under a provision of law referred to in section 101(a)(13)(B) of this title that provides for active-duty service to begin under such order on a date after the date of the issuance of the order.
“(3) This section shall cease to be effective on September 30, 2004.”
Pub. L. 108–106 added subsec. (d).
2002—Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 107–296 substituted “of Homeland Security” for “of Transportation”.
2000—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A], title VII, § 722(a)(1)(A)], substituted “uniformed services” for “armed forces” in pars. (1), (2)(A), and (3)(B).
Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A], title VII, § 722(a)(1)(B)], inserted “, the Department of Transportation (with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy), or the Department of Health and Human Services (with respect to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Public Health Service)” after “military department”.
Subsec. (c)(2)(C). Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A], title VII, § 722(a)(1)(C)], added subpar. (C).
Subsec. (c)(3)(A). Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A], title VII, § 722(a)(1)(D)], substituted “A member of the uniformed services described in subparagraph (B) may not be required” for “The Secretary of Defense may not require a member of the armed forces described in subparagraph (B)”.
1997—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 105–85 designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added pars. (2) and (3).
1996—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–201 struck out subsec. (d) which read as follows:
“(d)(1) The Secretary of Defense may require, by regulation, a private CHAMPUS provider to apply the CHAMPUS payment rules (subject to any modifications considered appropriate by the Secretary) in imposing charges for health care that the private CHAMPUS provider provides to a member of the uniformed services who is enrolled in a health care plan of a facility deemed to be a facility of the uniformed services under section 911(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act, 1982 (42 U.S.C. 248c(a)) when the health care is provided outside the catchment area of the facility.
“(2) In this subsection:
“(A) The term ‘private CHAMPUS provider’ means a private facility or health care provider that is a health care provider under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services.
“(B) The term ‘CHAMPUS payment rules’ means the payment rules referred to in subsection (c).
“(3) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations under this subsection after consultation with the other administering Secretaries.”
Pub. L. 104–106 added subsec. (d).
1990—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 101–510 substituted “Secretary of Veterans Affairs” for “Administrator” after “operated by the”.
1989—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 101–189, § 1621(a)(2), substituted “Secretary of Veterans Affairs” for “Administrator of Veterans’ Affairs”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 101–189, § 729, inserted at end “If a private facility or health care provider providing care under this subsection is a health care provider under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, the Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the other administering Secretaries, may by regulation require the private facility or health care provider to provide such care in accordance with the same payment rules (subject to any modifications considered appropriate by the Secretary) as apply under that program.”
1984—Subsecs. (a), (b). Pub. L. 98–557 substituted reference to administering Secretaries for reference to Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Health and Human Services wherever appearing.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 98–525 added subsec. (c).
1980—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 96–513, § 511(36), substituted “Secretary of Health and Human Services” for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare”.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 96–513, § 511(36), (37), substituted “Secretary of Health and Human Services” and “President” for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” and “Bureau of the Budget”, respectively.
1966—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 89–614 struck out provision which excepted from medical and dental care a member or former member who is entitled to retired pay under chapter 67 of this title and has served less than eight years on active duty (other than for training) and authorized care to be provided to persons covered by subsec. (b) in facilities operated by the Administrator of Veterans’ Affairs and available on a reimbursable basis at rates approved by the Bureau of the Budget.

Effective Date of 2008 AmendmentPub. L. 110–181, div. A, title XVI, § 1633(b), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 459, provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect on January 1, 2008.”


Effective Date of 2006 AmendmentPub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VII, § 743(b), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3360, provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect as of November 24, 2003, and as if included in the enactment of paragraph (2) of section 1074(a) of title 10, United States Code, by section 708 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108–136; 117 Stat. 1530).”


Effective Date of 2002 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 107–296 effective on the date of transfer of the Coast Guard to the Department of Homeland Security, see section 1704(g) of Pub. L. 107–296, set out as a note under section 101 of this title.

Effective Date of 2000 AmendmentPub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A], title VII, § 722(c)(1)], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–186, provided that: “The amendments made by subsections (a)(1) and (b)(1) [amending this section and section 1079 of this title] shall take effect on October 1, 2001.”


Effective Date of 1997 AmendmentPub. L. 105–85, div. A, title VII, § 731(a)(2), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1811, provided that: 
“The amendments made by paragraph (1) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to coverage of medical care for, and the provision of such care to, a member of the Armed Forces under section 1074(c) of title 10, United States Code, on and after the later of the following:
“(A) April 1, 1998.

“(B) The date on which the TRICARE program is in place in the service area of the member.”




Effective Date of 1984 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 98–525 effective Oct. 1, 1985, see section 1404 of Pub. L. 98–525, set out as an Effective Date note under section 520b of this title.

Effective Date of 1980 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 96–513 effective Dec. 12, 1980, see section 701(b)(3) of Pub. L. 96–513, set out as a note under section 101 of this title.

Effective Date of 1966 AmendmentFor effective date of amendment by Pub. L. 89–614, see section 3 of Pub. L. 89–614, set out as a note under section 1071 of this title.


Delegation of Functions
Authority of President under subsec. (b) to approve uniform rates of reimbursement for care provided in facilities operated by Secretary of Veterans Affairs delegated to Secretary of Veterans Affairs, see section 7(a) of Ex. Ord. No. 11609, July 22, 1971, 36 F.R. 13747, set out as a note under section 301 of Title 3, The President.

Pilot Program on Investigational Treatment of Members of the Armed Forces for Traumatic Brain Injury and Post-Traumatic Stress DisorderPub. L. 113–66, div. A, title VII, § 704, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 792, provided that:
“(a) Pilot Program Authorized.—The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot program under which the Secretary shall establish a process for randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials of investigational treatments (including diagnostic testing) of traumatic brain injury or post-traumatic stress disorder received by members of the Armed Forces in health care facilities other than military treatment facilities.

“(b) Conditions for Approval.—The approval by the Secretary for a treatment pursuant to subsection (a) shall be subject to the following conditions:“(1) Any drug or device used in the treatment must be approved, cleared, or made subject to an investigational use exemption by the Food and Drug Administration, and the use of the drug or device must comply with rules of the Food and Drug Administration applicable to investigational new drugs or investigational devices.

“(2) The treatment must be approved by the Secretary following approval by an institutional review board operating in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in addition to regulations issued by the Secretary of Defense regarding institutional review boards.

“(3) The patient receiving the treatment may not be a retired member of the Armed Forces who is entitled to benefits under part A, or eligible to enroll under part B, of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.).


“(c) Additional Restrictions Authorized.—The Secretary may establish additional restrictions or conditions as the Secretary determines appropriate to ensure the protection of human research subjects, appropriate fiscal management, and the validity of the research results.

“(d) Data Collection and Availability.—The Secretary shall develop and maintain a database containing data from each patient case involving the use of a treatment under this section. The Secretary shall ensure that the database preserves confidentiality and that any use of the database or disclosures of such data are limited to such use and disclosures permitted by law and applicable regulations.

“(e) Reports to Congress.—Not later than 30 days after the last day of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the implementation of this section and any available results on investigational treatment clinical trials authorized under this section during such fiscal year.

“(f) Termination.—The authority of the Secretary to carry out the pilot program authorized by subsection (a) shall terminate on December 31, 2018.”




Department of Defense Guidance on Environmental Exposures at Military InstallationsPub. L. 112–239, div. A, title III, § 313(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1692, provided that:
“(1) In general.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 2, 2013], the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance to the military departments and appropriate defense agencies regarding environmental exposures on military installations.

“(2) Elements.—The guidance issued pursuant to paragraph (1) shall address, at a minimum, the following:“(A) The criteria for when and under what circumstances public health assessments by the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry must be requested in connection with environmental contamination at military installations, including past incidents of environmental contamination.

“(B) The procedures to be used to track and document the status and nature of responses to the findings and recommendations of the public health assessments of the Agency of Toxic Substances and Disease Registry that involve contamination at military installations.

“(C) The appropriate actions to be undertaken to assess significant long-term health risks from past environmental exposures to military personnel and civilian individuals from living or working on military installations.


“(3) Submission.—Not later than 30 days after the issuance of the guidance required by paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall transmit to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] a copy of the guidance.”




Smoking Cessation Program Under TRICAREPub. L. 110–417, [div. A], title VII, § 713, Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4503, provided that:
“(a) TRICARE Smoking Cessation Program.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 14, 2008], the Secretary of Defense shall establish a smoking cessation program under the TRICARE program, to be made available to all beneficiaries under the TRICARE program, subject to subsection (b). The Secretary may prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to implement the program.

“(b) Exclusion for Medicare-Eligible Beneficiaries.—The smoking cessation program shall not be made available to medicare-eligible beneficiaries.

“(c) Elements.—The program shall include, at a minimum, the following elements:“(1) The availability, at no cost to the beneficiary, of pharmaceuticals used for smoking cessation, with a limitation on the availability of such pharmaceuticals to the national mail-order pharmacy program under the TRICARE program if appropriate.

“(2) Counseling.

“(3) Access to a toll-free quit line that is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

“(4) Access to printed and Internet web-based tobacco cessation material.


“(d) Chain of Command Involvement.—In establishing the program, the Secretary of Defense shall provide for involvement by officers in the chain of command of participants in the program who are on active duty.

“(e) Plan.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 14, 2008], the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] a plan to implement the program.

“(f) Refund of Copayments.—“(1) Authority.—Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary may pay a refund to a medicare-eligible beneficiary otherwise excluded by this section, subject to the availability of appropriations specifically for such refunds, consisting of an amount up to the difference between—“(A) the amount the beneficiary pays for copayments for smoking cessation services described in subsection (c) during fiscal year 2009; and

“(B) the amount the beneficiary would have paid during such fiscal year if the beneficiary had not been excluded under subsection (b) from the smoking cessation program under subsection (a).


“(2) Copayments covered.—The refunds under paragraph (1) are available only for copayments paid by medicare-eligible beneficiaries during fiscal year 2009.


“(g) Report.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 14, 2008], the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] a report covering the following:“(1) The status of the program.

“(2) The number of participants in the program.

“(3) The cost of the program.

“(4) The costs avoided that are attributed to the program.

“(5) The success rates of the program compared to other nationally recognized smoking cessation programs.

“(6) Findings regarding the success rate of participants in the program.

“(7) Recommendations to modify the policies and procedures of the program.

“(8) Recommendations concerning the future utility of the program.


“(h) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) TRICARE program.—The term ‘TRICARE program’ has the meaning provided by section 1072(7) of title 10, United States Code.

“(2) Medicare-eligible.—The term ‘medicare-eligible’ has the meaning provided by section 1111(b) of title 10, United States Code.”





Longitudinal Study on Traumatic Brain Injury Incurred by Members of the Armed Forces in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring FreedomPub. L. 109–364, div. A, title VII, § 721, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2294, provided that:
“(a) Study Required.—The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a longitudinal study on the effects of traumatic brain injury incurred by members of the Armed Forces serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom or Operation Enduring Freedom on the members who incur such an injury and their families.

“(b) Duration.—The study required by subsection (a) shall be conducted for a period of 15 years.

“(c) Elements.—The study required by subsection (a) shall specifically address the following:“(1) The long-term physical and mental health effects of traumatic brain injuries incurred by members of the Armed Forces during service in Operation Iraqi Freedom or Operation Enduring Freedom.

“(2) The health care, mental health care, and rehabilitation needs of such members for such injuries after the completion of inpatient treatment through the Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, or both.

“(3) The type and availability of long-term care rehabilitation programs and services within and outside the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs for such members for such injuries, including community-based programs and services and in-home programs and services.

“(4) The effect on family members of a member incurring such an injury.


“(d) Consultation.—The Secretary of Defense shall conduct the study required by subsection (a) and prepare the reports required by subsection (e) in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.

“(e) Periodic and Final Reports.—After the third, seventh, eleventh, and fifteenth years of the study required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a comprehensive report on the results of the study during the preceding years. Each report shall include the following:“(1) Current information on the cumulative outcomes of the study.

“(2) Such recommendations as the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs jointly consider appropriate based on the outcomes of the study, including recommendations for legislative, programmatic, or administrative action to improve long-term care and rehabilitation programs and services for members of the Armed Forces with traumatic brain injuries.”





Standards and Tracking of Access to Health Care Services for Wounded, Injured, or Ill Servicemembers Returning to the United States From a Combat ZonePub. L. 109–364, div. A, title VII, § 733, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2298, provided that:
“(a) Report on Uniform Standards for Access.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 17, 2006], the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on uniform standards for the access of wounded, injured, or ill members of the Armed Forces to health care services in the United States following return from a combat zone.

“(b) Matters Covered.—The report required by subsection (a) shall describe in detail policies with respect to the following:“(1) The access of wounded, injured, or ill members of the Armed Forces to emergency care.

“(2) The access of such members to surgical services.

“(3) Waiting times for referrals and consultations of such members by medical personnel, dental personnel, mental health specialists, and rehabilitative service specialists, including personnel and specialists with expertise in prosthetics and in the treatment of head, vision, and spinal cord injuries.

“(4) Waiting times of such members for acute care and for routine follow-up care.


“(c) Referral to Providers Outside Military Health Care System.—The Secretary shall require that health care services and rehabilitation needs of members described in subsection (a) be met through whatever means or mechanisms possible, including through the referral of members described in that subsection to health care providers outside the military health care system.

“(d) Uniform System for Tracking of Performance.—The Secretary shall establish a uniform system for tracking the performance of the military health care system in meeting the requirements for access of wounded, injured, or ill members of the Armed Forces to health care services described in subsection (a).

“(e) Reports.—“(1) Tracking system.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 17, 2006], the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the system established under subsection (d).

“(2) Access.—Not later than October 1, 2006, and each quarter thereafter during fiscal year 2007, the Secretary shall submit to such committees a report on the performance of the health care system in meeting the access standards described in the report required by subsection (a).”





Pilot Projects on Early Diagnosis and Treatment of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and Other Mental Health ConditionsPub. L. 109–364, div. A, title VII, § 741, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2304, provided that:
“(a) Pilot Projects Required.—The Secretary of Defense shall carry out not less than three pilot projects to evaluate the efficacy of various approaches to improving the capability of the military and civilian health care systems to provide early diagnosis and treatment of post traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions.

“(b) Duration.—Any pilot project carried out under this section shall begin not later than October 1, 2007, and cease on September 30, 2008.

“(c) Pilot Project Requirements.—“(1) Diagnostic and treatment approaches.—One of the pilot projects under this section shall be designed to evaluate effective diagnostic and treatment approaches for use by primary care providers in the military health care system in order to improve the capability of such providers to diagnose and treat post traumatic stress disorder.

“(2) National guard or reserve members.—“(A) One of the pilot projects under this section shall be focused on members of the National Guard or Reserves who are located more than 40 miles from a military medical facility and who are served primarily by civilian community health resources.

“(B) The pilot project described in subparagraph (A) shall be designed to develop educational materials and other tools for use by members of the National Guard or Reserves who come into contact with other members of the National Guard or Reserves who may suffer from post traumatic stress disorder in order to encourage and facilitate early reporting and referral for treatment.


“(3) Outreach.—One of the pilot projects under this section shall be designed to provide outreach to the family members of the members of the Armed Forces on post traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions.


“(d) Evaluation of Pilot Projects.—The Secretary shall evaluate each pilot project carried out under this section in order to assess the effectiveness of the approaches taken under such pilot project—“(1) to improve the capability of the military and civilian health care systems to provide early diagnosis and treatment of post traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions among members of the regular components of the Armed Forces, and among members of the National Guard and Reserves, who have returned from deployment; and

“(2) to provide outreach to the family members of the members of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (1) on post traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions among such members of the Armed Forces.


“(e) Report to Congress.—“(1) Report required.—Not later than December 31, 2008, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] a report on the pilot projects carried out under this section.

“(2) Elements.—The report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:“(A) A description of each pilot project carried out under this section.

“(B) An assessment of the effectiveness of the approaches taken under each pilot project to improve the capability of the military and civilian health care systems to provide early diagnosis and treatment of post traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions among members of the Armed Forces.

“(C) Any recommendations for legislative or administrative action that the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the pilot projects, including recommendations on—“(i) the training of health care providers in the military and civilian health care systems on early diagnosis and treatment of post traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions; and

“(ii) the provision of outreach on post traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions to members of the National Guard and Reserves who have returned from deployment.


“(D) A plan, in light of the pilot projects, for the improvement of the health care services provided to members of the Armed Forces in order to better assure the early diagnosis and treatment of post traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions among members of the Armed Forces, including a specific plan for outreach on post traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions to members of the National Guard and Reserves who have returned from deployment in order to facilitate and enhance the early diagnosis and treatment of post traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions among such members of the National Guard and Reserves.”






Training Curricula for Family Caregivers on Care and Assistance for Members and Former Members of the Armed Forces With Traumatic Brain InjuryPub. L. 109–364, div. A, title VII, § 744, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2308, provided that:
“(a) Traumatic Brain Injury Family Caregiver Panel.—“(1) Establishment.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish a panel within the Department of Defense, to be known as the ‘Traumatic Brain Injury Family Caregiver Panel’, to develop coordinated, uniform, and consistent training curricula to be used in training family members in the provision of care and assistance to members and former members of the Armed Forces with traumatic brain injuries.

“(2) Members.—The Traumatic Brain Injury Family Caregiver Panel shall consist of 15 members appointed by the Secretary of Defense from among the following:“(A) Physicians, nurses, rehabilitation therapists, and other individuals with an expertise in caring for and assisting individuals with traumatic brain injury, including persons who specialize in caring for and assisting individuals with traumatic brain injury incurred in combat.

“(B) Representatives of family caregivers or family caregiver associations.

“(C) Health and medical personnel of the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs with expertise in traumatic brain injury and personnel and readiness representatives of the Department of Defense with expertise in traumatic brain injury.

“(D) Psychologists or other individuals with expertise in the mental health treatment and care of individuals with traumatic brain injury.

“(E) Experts in the development of training curricula.

“(F) Family members of members of the Armed Forces with traumatic brain injury.

“(G) Such other individuals the Secretary considers appropriate.


“(3) Consultation.—In establishing the Traumatic Brain Injury Family Caregiver Panel and appointing the members of the Panel, the Secretary of Defense shall consult with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.


“(b) Development of Curricula.—“(1) Development.—The Traumatic Brain Injury Family Caregiver Panel shall develop training curricula to be used by family members of members and former members of the Armed Forces on techniques, strategies, and skills for care and assistance for such members and former members with traumatic brain injury.

“(2) Scope of curricula.—The curricula shall—“(A) be based on empirical research and validated techniques; and

“(B) shall provide for training that permits recipients to tailor caregiving to the unique circumstances of the member or former member of the Armed Forces receiving care.


“(3) Particular requirements.—In developing the curricula, the Traumatic Brain Injury Family Caregiver Panel shall—“(A) specify appropriate training commensurate with the severity of traumatic brain injury; and

“(B) identify appropriate care and assistance to be provided for the degree of severity of traumatic brain injury for caregivers of various levels of skill and capability.


“(4) Use of existing materials.—In developing the curricula, the Traumatic Brain Injury Family Caregiver Panel shall use and enhance any existing training curricula, materials, and resources applicable to such curricula as the Panel considers appropriate.

“(5) Deadline for development.—The Traumatic Brain Injury Family Caregiver Panel shall develop the curricula not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 17, 2006].


“(c) Dissemination of Curricula.—“(1) Dissemination mechanisms.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop mechanisms for the dissemination of the curricula developed under subsection (b)—“(A) to health care professionals who treat or otherwise work with members and former members of the Armed Forces with traumatic brain injury;

“(B) to family members affected by the traumatic brain injury of such members and former members; and

“(C) to other care or support personnel who may provide service to members or former members affected by traumatic brain injury.


“(2) Use of existing mechanisms.—In developing such mechanisms, the Secretary may use and enhance existing mechanisms, including the Military Severely Injured Center (authorized under section 564 of this Act [10 U.S.C. 113 note]) and the programs for service to severely injured members established by the military departments.


“(d) Report.—Not later than one year after the development of the curricula required by subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services and Veterans Affairs of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the following:“(1) The actions undertaken under this section.

“(2) Recommendations for the improvement or updating of training curriculum developed and provided under this section.”





Pilot Projects on Early Diagnosis and Treatment of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and Other Mental Health ConditionsPub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VII, § 722, Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3347, provided that:
“(a) Pilot Projects Required.—The Secretary of Defense may carry out pilot projects to evaluate the efficacy of various approaches to improving the capability of the military and civilian health care systems to provide early diagnosis and treatment of post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other mental health conditions.

“(b) Pilot Project Requirements.—“(1) Mobilization-demobilization facility.—“(A) In general.—A pilot project under subsection (a) may be carried out at a military medical facility at a large military installation at which the mobilization or demobilization of members of the Armed Forces occurs.

“(B) Elements.—The pilot project under this paragraph shall be designed to evaluate and produce effective diagnostic and treatment approaches for use by primary care providers in the military health care system in order to improve the capability of such providers to diagnose and treat post traumatic stress disorder in a manner that avoids the referral of patients to specialty care by a psychiatrist or other mental health professional.


“(2) National guard or reserve facility.—“(A) In general.—A pilot project under subsection (a) may be carried out at the location of a National Guard or Reserve unit or units that are located more than 40 miles from a military medical facility and whose personnel are served primarily by civilian community health resources.

“(B) Elements.—The pilot project under this paragraph shall be designed—“(i) to evaluate approaches for providing evidence-based clinical information on post traumatic stress disorder to civilian primary care providers; and

“(ii) to develop educational materials and other tools for use by members of the National Guard or Reserve who come into contact with other members of the National Guard or Reserve who may suffer from post traumatic stress disorder in order to encourage and facilitate early reporting and referral for treatment.




“(c) Report.—Not later than September 1, 2006, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] a report on the progress toward identifying pilot projects to be carried out under this section. To the extent possible the report shall include a description of each such pilot project, including the location of the pilot projects under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b), and the scope and objectives of each such pilot project.”




Cooperative Outreach to Members and Former Members of the Naval Service Exposed to Environmental Factors Related to SarcoidosisPub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VII, § 746, Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3362, provided that:
“(a) Outreach Program Required.—The Secretary of the Navy, in coordination with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall conduct an outreach program intended to contact as many members and former members of the naval service as possible who, in connection with service aboard Navy ships, may have been exposed to aerosolized particles resulting from the removal of nonskid coating used on those ships.

“(b) Purposes of Outreach Program.—The purposes of the outreach program are as follows:“(1) To develop additional data for use in subsequent studies aimed at determining a causative link between sarcoidosis and military service.

“(2) To inform members and former members identified in subsection (a) of the findings of Navy studies identifying an association between service aboard certain naval ships and sarcoidosis.

“(3) To provide information to assist members and former members identified in subsection (a) in getting medical evaluations to help clarify linkages between their disease and their service aboard Navy ships.

“(4) To provide the Department of Veterans Affairs with data and information for the effective evaluation of veterans who may seek care for sarcoidosis.


“(c) Implementation and Report.—Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 6, 2006], the Secretary of the Navy shall begin the outreach program. Not later than one year after beginning the program, the Secretary shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives and the Committees on Veterans Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the results of the outreach program.”




Medical Readiness Plan and Joint Medical Readiness Oversight CommitteePub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VII, § 731, Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 1993, as amended by Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 515(h), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3237; Pub. L. 109–364, div. A, title X, § 1071(g)(8), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2402; Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title X, § 1062(f)(1), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1585, provided that:
“(a) Requirement for Plan.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop a comprehensive plan to improve medical readiness, and Department of Defense tracking of the health status, of members of the Armed Forces throughout their service in the Armed Forces, and to strengthen medical readiness and tracking before, during, and after deployment of members of the Armed Forces overseas. The matters covered by the comprehensive plan shall include all elements that are described in this subtitle [subtitle D [§§ 731 to 740] of title VII of Pub. L. 108–375, enacting sections 1073b and 1092a of this title and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and sections 1073b, 1074f, and 1092a of this title] and the amendments made by this subtitle and shall comply with requirements in law.

“(b) Joint Medical Readiness Oversight Committee.—“(1) Establishment.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish a Joint Medical Readiness Oversight Committee.

“(2) Composition.—The members of the Committee are as follows:“(A) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, who shall chair the Committee.

“(B) The Vice Chief of Staff of the Army, the Vice Chief of Naval Operations, the Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and the Assistant Commandant of the Marine Corp.

“(C) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs.

“(D) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs.

“(E) The Surgeon General of each of the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force.

“(F) The Assistant Secretary of the Army for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.

“(G) The Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.

“(H) The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower, Reserve Affairs, Installations, and Environment.

“(I) The Chief of the National Guard Bureau.

“(J) The Chief of Army Reserve.

“(K) The Chief of Navy Reserve.

“(L) The Chief of Air Force Reserve.

“(M) The Commander, Marine Corps Reserve.

“(N) The Director of the Defense Manpower Data Center.

“(O) A representative of the Department of Veterans Affairs designated by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.


“(3) Duties.—The duties of the Committee are as follows:“(A) To advise the Secretary of Defense on the medical readiness and health status of the members of the active and reserve components of the Armed Forces.

“(B) To advise the Secretary of Defense on the compliance of the Armed Forces with the medical readiness tracking and health surveillance policies of the Department of Defense.

“(C) To oversee the development and implementation of the comprehensive plan required by subsection (a) and the actions required by this subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle, including with respect to matters relating to—“(i) the health status of the members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces;

“(ii) accountability for medical readiness;

“(iii) medical tracking and health surveillance;

“(iv) declassification of information on environmental hazards;

“(v) postdeployment health care for members of the Armed Forces; and

“(vi) compliance with Department of Defense and other applicable policies on blood serum repositories.


“(D) To ensure unity and integration of efforts across functional and organizational lines within the Department of Defense with regard to medical readiness tracking and health surveillance of members of the Armed Forces.

“(E) To establish and monitor compliance with the medical readiness standards that are applicable to members and those that are applicable to units.

“(F) To improve continuity of care in coordination with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, for members of the Armed Forces separating from active service with service-connected medical conditions.


“(4) First meeting.—The first meeting of the Committee shall be held not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2004].”





Accountability for Medical Readiness of Individuals and Units of the Reserve ComponentsPub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VII, § 732(b), Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 1997, provided that:
“(1) Policy.—The Secretary of Defense shall take measures, in addition to those required by section 1074f of title 10, United States Code, to ensure that individual members and commanders of reserve component units fulfill their responsibilities and meet the requirements for medical and dental readiness of members of the units. Such measures may include—“(A) requiring more frequent health assessments of members than is required by section 1074f(b) of title 10, United States Code, with an objective of having every member of the Selected Reserve receive a health assessment as specified in section 1074f of such title not less frequently than once every two years; and

“(B) providing additional support and information to commanders to assist them in improving the health status of members of their units.


“(2) Review and followup care.—The measures under this subsection shall provide for review of the health assessments under paragraph (1) by a medical professional and for any followup care and treatment that is otherwise authorized for medical or dental readiness.

“(3) Modification of predeployment health assessment survey.—In carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—“(A) to the extent practicable, modify the predeployment health assessment survey to bring such survey into conformity with the detailed postdeployment health assessment survey in use as of October 1, 2004; and

“(B) ensure the use of the predeployment health assessment survey, as so modified, for predeployment health assessments after that date.”





Uniform Policy on Deferral of Medical Treatment Pending Deployment to Theaters of OperationsPub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VII, § 732(c), Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 1997, provided that:
“(1) Requirement for policy.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe, for uniform applicability throughout the Armed Forces, a policy on deferral of medical treatment of members pending deployment.

“(2) Content.—The policy prescribed under paragraph (1) may specify the following matters:“(A) The circumstances under which treatment for medical conditions may be deferred to be provided within a theater of operations in order to prevent delay or other disruption of a deployment to that theater.

“(B) The circumstances under which medical conditions are to be treated before deployment to that theater.”





Medical Care and Tracking and Health Surveillance in the Theater of OperationsPub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VII, § 734, Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 1998, provided that:
“(a) Recordkeeping Policy.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe a policy that requires the records of all medical care provided to a member of the Armed Forces in a theater of operations to be maintained as part of a complete health record for the member.

“(b) In-Theater Medical Tracking and Health Surveillance.—“(1) Requirement for evaluation.—The Secretary of Defense shall evaluate the system for the medical tracking and health surveillance of members of the Armed Forces in theaters of operations and take such actions as may be necessary to improve the medical tracking and health surveillance.

“(2) Report.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2004], the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report on the actions taken under paragraph (1) to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives. The report shall include the following matters:“(A) An analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the medical tracking system administered under section 1074f of title 10, United States Code.

“(B) An analysis of the efficacy of health surveillance systems as a means of detecting—“(i) any health problems (including mental health conditions) of members of the Armed Forces contemporaneous with the performance of the assessment under the system; and

“(ii) exposures of the assessed members to environmental hazards that potentially lead to future health problems.


“(C) An analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of such medical tracking and surveillance systems as a means for supporting future research on health issues.

“(D) Recommended changes to such medical tracking and health surveillance systems.

“(E) A summary of scientific literature on blood sampling procedures used for detecting and identifying exposures to environmental hazards.

“(F) An assessment of whether there is a need for changes to regulations and standards for drawing blood samples for effective tracking and health surveillance of the medical conditions of personnel before deployment, upon the end of a deployment, and for a followup period of appropriate length.



“(c) Plan To Obtain Health Care Records From Allies.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan for obtaining all records of medical treatment provided to members of the Armed Forces by allies of the United States in Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. The plan shall specify the actions that are to be taken to obtain all such records.

“(d) Policy on In-Theater Personnel Locator Data.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2004], the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe a Department of Defense policy on the collection and dissemination of in-theater individual personnel location data.”




Declassification of Information on Exposures to Environmental HazardsPub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VII, § 735, Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 1999, provided that:
“(a) Requirement for Review.—The Secretary of Defense shall review and, as determined appropriate, revise the classification policies of the Department of Defense with a view to facilitating the declassification of data that is potentially useful for the monitoring and assessment of the health of members of the Armed Forces who have been exposed to environmental hazards during deployments overseas, including the following data:“(1) In-theater injury rates.

“(2) Data derived from environmental surveillance.

“(3) Health tracking and surveillance data.


“(b) Consultation With Commanders of Theater Combatant Commands.—The Secretary shall, to the extent that the Secretary considers appropriate, consult with the senior commanders of the in-theater forces of the combatant commands in carrying out the review and revising policies under subsection (a).”




Uniform Policy for Meeting Mobilization-Related Medical Care Needs at Military InstallationsPub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VII, § 737, Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 2000, provided that:
“(a) Health Care at Mobilization Installations.—The Secretary of Defense shall take such steps as necessary, including through the uniform policy established under subsection (c), to ensure that anticipated health care needs of members of the Armed Forces at mobilization installations can be met at those installations. Such steps may, within authority otherwise available to the Secretary, include the following with respect to any such installation:“(1) Arrangements for health care to be provided by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.

“(2) Procurement of services from local health care providers.

“(3) Temporary employment of health care personnel to provide services at such installation.


“(b) Mobilization Installations.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘mobilization installation’ means a military installation at which members of the Armed Forces, in connection with a contingency operation or during a national emergency—“(1) are mobilized;

“(2) are deployed; or

“(3) are redeployed from a deployment location.


“(c) Requirement for Regulations.—“(1) Policy on implementation.—The Secretary of Defense shall by regulation establish a policy for the implementation of subsection (a) throughout the Department of Defense.

“(2) Identification and analysis of needs.—As part of the policy prescribed under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall require the Secretary of each military department, with respect to each mobilization installation under the jurisdiction of that Secretary, to identify and analyze the anticipated health care needs at that installation with respect to members of the Armed Forces who may be expected to mobilize or deploy or redeploy at that installation as described in subsection (b)(1). Such identification and analysis shall be carried out so as to be completed before the arrival of such members at the installation.

“(3) Response to needs.—The policy established by the Secretary of Defense under paragraph (1) shall require that, based on the results of the identification and analysis under paragraph (2), the Secretary of the military department concerned shall determine how to expeditiously and effectively respond to those anticipated health care needs that cannot be met within the resources otherwise available at that installation, in accordance with subsection (a).

“(4) Implementation of authority.—In implementing the policy established under paragraph (1) at any installation, the Secretary of the military department concerned shall ensure that the commander of the installation, and the officers and other personnel superior to that commander in that commander’s chain of command, have appropriate authority and responsibility for such implementation.


“(d) Policy.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure—“(1) that the policy prescribed under subsection (c) is carried out with respect to any mobilization installation with the involvement of all agencies of the Department of Defense that have responsibility for management of the installation and all organizations of the Department that have command authority over any activity at the installation; and

“(2) that such policy is implemented on a uniform basis throughout the Department of Defense.”





Full Implementation of Medical Readiness Tracking and Health Surveillance Program and Force Health Protection and Readiness ProgramPub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VII, § 738, Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 2001, provided that:
“(a) Implementation at All Levels.—The Secretary of Defense, in conjunction with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps fully implement at all levels—“(1) the Medical Readiness Tracking and Health Surveillance Program under this title [see Tables for classification] and the amendments made by this title; and

“(2) the Force Health Protection and Readiness Program of the Department of Defense (relating to the prevention of injury and illness and the reduction of disease and noncombat injury threats).


“(b) Action Official.—The Secretary of Defense may act through the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness in carrying out subsection (a).”




Internet Accessibility of Health Assessment Information for Members of the Armed ForcesPub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VII, § 739(b), Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 2002, provided that: 
“Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2004], the Chief Information Officer of each military department shall ensure that the online portal website of that military department includes the following information relating to health assessments:
“(1) Information on the policies of the Department of Defense and the military department concerned regarding predeployment and postdeployment health assessments, including policies on the following matters:“(A) Health surveys.

“(B) Physical examinations.

“(C) Collection of blood samples and other tissue samples.


“(2) Procedural information on compliance with such policies, including the following information:“(A) Information for determining whether a member is in compliance.

“(B) Information on how to comply.


“(3) Health assessment surveys that are either—“(A) web-based; or

“(B) accessible (with instructions) in printer-ready form by download.”





Inclusion of Dental CarePub. L. 108–375, div. A, title VII, § 740, as added by Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VII, § 745(a), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3362, provided that: “For purposes of the plan, this subtitle [subtitle D (§§ 731–740) of title VII of div. A of Pub. L. 108–375, enacting sections 1073b and 1092a of this title and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and sections 1073b, 1074f, and 1092a of this title], and the amendments made by this subtitle, references to medical readiness, health status, and health care shall be considered to include dental readiness, dental status, and dental care.”


Limitation on Fiscal Year 2004 Outlays for Temporary Reserve Health Care ProgramsPub. L. 108–136, div. A, title VII, § 706, Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1529, as amended by Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title X, § 1063(g)(1), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 323, provided that:
“(a) Outlay Limitation.—In the administration of the temporary Reserve health care programs, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out those programs so as to limit the total Department of Defense expenditures under those programs during fiscal year 2004 to an amount not in excess $400,000,000.

“(b) Continuity of Care.—In the administration of the temporary Reserve health care programs, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out the implementation and termination of those programs so as to ensure the least amount of disruption to the continuity of care for persons provided care under those programs.

“(c) Temporary Reserve Health Care Programs.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘temporary Reserve health care programs’ means the following:“(1) The program under [former] section 1076b of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 702.

“(2) The program under section 1074(d) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 703.

“(3) The program under section 704 [former 10 U.S.C. 1145 note].”





Disclosure of Information on Project 112 to Department of Veterans AffairsPub. L. 107–314, div. A, title VII, § 709, Dec. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 2586, provided that:
“(a) Plan for Disclosure of Information.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 2, 2002], the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs a comprehensive plan for the review, declassification, and submittal to the Department of Veterans Affairs of all records and information of the Department of Defense on Project 112 that are relevant to the provision of benefits by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to members of the Armed Forces who participated in that project.

“(b) Plan Requirements.—(1) The records and information covered by the plan under subsection (a) shall be the records and information necessary to permit the identification of members of the Armed Forces who were or may have been exposed to chemical or biological agents as a result of Project 112.

“(2) The plan shall provide for completion of all activities contemplated by the plan not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 2, 2002].


“(c) Identification of Other Projects or Tests.—The Secretary of Defense also shall work with veterans and veterans service organizations to identify other projects or tests conducted by the Department of Defense that may have exposed members of the Armed Forces to chemical or biological agents.

“(d) GAO Reports on Plan and Implementation.—(1) Not later than 30 days after submission of the plan under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report reviewing the plan. The report shall include an examination of whether adequate resources have been committed, the timeliness of the information to be released to the Department of Veterans Affairs, and the adequacy of the procedures to notify affected veterans of potential exposure.

“(2) Not later than six months after implementation of the plan begins, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report evaluating the progress in the implementation of the plan.


“(e) DOD Reports on Implementation.—(1) Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 2, 2002], and upon completion of all activities contemplated by the plan under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs a report on progress in the implementation of the plan.

“(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include, for the period covered by such report—“(A) the number of records reviewed;

“(B) each test, if any, under Project 112 identified during such review;

“(C) for each test so identified—“(i) the test name;

“(ii) the test objective;

“(iii) the chemical or biological agent or agents involved; and

“(iv) the number of members of the Armed Forces, and civilian personnel, potentially effected by such test; and


“(D) the extent of submittal of records and information to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under this section.



“(f) Project 112.—For purposes of this section, Project 112 refers to the chemical and biological weapons vulnerability-testing program of the Department of Defense conducted by the Deseret Test Center from 1963 to 1969. The project included the Shipboard Hazard and Defense (SHAD) project of the Navy.”




Health Care at Former Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities for Active Duty Members Stationed at Certain Remote LocationsPub. L. 106–65, div. A, title VII, § 706, Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 684, as amended by Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A], title VII, § 722(a)(3)], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–185, provided that:
“(a) Authority.—Health care may be furnished by a designated provider pursuant to any contract entered into by the designated provider under section 722(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997 (Public Law 104–201; 10 U.S.C. 1073 note) to eligible members who reside within the service area of the designated provider.

“(b) Eligibility.—A member of the uniformed services (as defined in section 1072(1) of title 10, United States Code) is eligible for health care under subsection (a) if the member is a member described in section 731(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105–85; 111 Stat. 1811; 10 U.S.C. 1074 note).

“(c) Applicable Policies.—In furnishing health care to an eligible member under subsection (a), a designated provider shall adhere to the Department of Defense policies applicable to the furnishing of care under the TRICARE Prime Remote program, including coordinating with uniformed services medical authorities for hospitalizations and all referrals for specialty care.

“(d) Reimbursement Rates.—The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the designated providers, shall prescribe reimbursement rates for care furnished to eligible members under subsection (a). The rates prescribed for health care may not exceed the amounts allowable under the TRICARE Standard plan for the same care.”




Temporary Authority for Managed Care Expansion to Members on Active Duty at Certain Remote Locations; “TRICARE Program” and “TRICARE Prime Plan” DefinedPub. L. 105–85, div. A, title VII, § 731(b)–(f), Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1811, 1812, as amended by Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A], title VII, § 722(a)(2), (b)(2)], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–185, 1654A–186, provided that:
“(b) Temporary Authority for Managed Care Expansion to Members on Active Duty at Certain Remote Locations.—(1) A member of the uniformed services described in subsection (c) is entitled to receive care under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services. In connection with such care, the Secretary of Defense shall waive the obligation of the member to pay a deductible, copayment, or annual fee that would otherwise be applicable under that program for care provided to the members under the program. A dependent of the member, as described in subparagraph (A), (D), or (I) of section 1072(2) of title 10, United States Code, who is residing with the member shall have the same entitlement to care and to waiver of charges as the member.

“(2) A member or dependent of the member, as the case may be, who is entitled under paragraph (1) to receive health care services under CHAMPUS shall receive such care from a network provider under the TRICARE program if such a provider is available in the service area of the member.

“(3) Paragraph (1) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 18, 1997] and shall expire with respect to a member upon the later of the following:“(A) The date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

“(B) The date on which the amendments made by subsection (a) [amending this section] apply with respect to the coverage of medical care for, and provision of such care to, the member.


“(4) The Secretary of Defense shall consult with the other administering Secretaries in the administration of this subsection.


“(c) Eligible Members.—A member referred to in subsection (b) is a member of the uniformed services on active duty who—“(1) receives a duty assignment described in subsection (d); and

“(2) pursuant to the assignment of such duty, resides at a location that is more than 50 miles, or approximately one hour of driving time, from—“(A) the nearest health care facility of the uniformed services adequate to provide the needed care under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code; and

“(B) the nearest source of the needed care that is available to the member under the TRICARE Prime plan.



“(d) Duty Assignments Covered.—A duty assignment referred to in subsection (c)(1) means any of the following:“(1) Permanent duty as a recruiter.

“(2) Permanent duty at an educational institution to instruct, administer a program of instruction, or provide administrative services in support of a program of instruction for the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps.

“(3) Permanent duty as a full-time adviser to a unit of a reserve component of the uniformed services.

“(4) Any other permanent duty designated by the Secretary concerned for purposes of this subsection.


“(e) Payment of Costs.—Deductibles, copayments, and annual fees not payable by a member by reason of a waiver granted under the regulations prescribed pursuant to subsection (b) shall be paid out of funds available to the Department of Defense for the Defense Health Program.

“(f) Definitions.—In this section [amending this section and enacting provisions set out as a note above]:“(1) The term ‘TRICARE program’ has the meaning given that term in section 1072(7) of title 10, United States Code.

“(2) The term ‘TRICARE Prime plan’ means a plan under the TRICARE program that provides for the voluntary enrollment of persons for the receipt of health care services to be furnished in a manner similar to the manner in which health care services are furnished by health maintenance organizations.

“(3) The terms ‘uniformed services’ and ‘administering Secretaries’ have the meanings given those terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.”




[Pub. L. 106–398, § 1 [[div. A], title VII, § 722(c)(2), (3)], Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1654, 1654A–186, provided that:
[“(2) The amendments made by subsection (a)(2) [amending section 731(b)–(f) of Pub. L. 105–85, set out above], with respect to members of the uniformed services, and the amendments made by subsection (b)(2) [amending section 731(b)–(f) of Pub. L. 105–85, set out above], with respect to dependents of members, shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 2000] and shall expire with respect to a member or the dependents of a member, respectively, on the later of the following:
[“(A) The date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
[“(B) The date on which the policies required by the amendments made by subsection (a)(1) or (b)(1) [amending this section and section 1079 of this title] are implemented with respect to the coverage of medical care for and provision of such care to the member or dependents, respectively.
[“(3) Section 731(b)(3) of Public Law 105–85 [set out above] does not apply to a member of the Coast Guard, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, or to a dependent of a member of a uniformed service.”]

Independent Research Regarding Gulf War SyndromePub. L. 104–201, div. A, title VII, § 743, Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2601, provided that:
“(a) Definitions.—For purposes of this section:“(1) The term ‘Gulf War service’ means service on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces in the Southwest Asia theater of operations during the Persian Gulf War.

“(2) The term ‘Gulf War syndrome’ means the complex of illnesses and symptoms commonly known as Gulf War syndrome.

“(3) The term ‘Persian Gulf War’ has the meaning given that term in section 101(33) of title 38, United States Code.


“(b) Research.—The Secretary of Defense shall provide, by contract, grant, or other transaction, for scientific research to be carried out by entities independent of the Federal Government on possible causal relationships between Gulf War syndrome and—“(1) the possible exposures of members of the Armed Forces to chemical warfare agents or other hazardous materials during Gulf War service; and

“(2) the use by the Department of Defense during the Persian Gulf War of combinations of various inoculations and investigational new drugs.


“(c) Procedures for Awarding Grants.—The Secretary shall prescribe the procedures to be used to make research awards under subsection (b). The procedures shall—“(1) include a comprehensive, independent peer-review process for the evaluation of proposals for scientific research that are submitted to the Department of Defense; and

“(2) provide for the final selection of proposals for award to be based on the scientific merit and program relevance of the proposed research.


“(d) Availability of Funds.—Of the amount authorized to be appropriated under section 301(21) [110 Stat. 2475] for defense medical programs, $10,000,000 is available for research under subsection (b).”




Persian Gulf IllnessPub. L. 105–85, div. A, title VII, §§ 761, 762, 770, Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1824, 1829, provided that:
“SEC. 761. DEFINITIONS.“For purposes of this subtitle [subtitle F (§§ 761–771) of title VII of Pub. L. 105–85, enacting sections 1074e, 1074f, and 1107 of this title and this note]:“(1) The term ‘Gulf War illness’ means any one of the complex of illnesses and symptoms that might have been contracted by members of the Armed Forces as a result of service in the Southwest Asia theater of operations during the Persian Gulf War.

“(2) The term ‘Persian Gulf War’ has the meaning given that term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.

“(3) The term ‘Persian Gulf veteran’ means an individual who served on active duty in the Armed Forces in the Southwest Asia theater of operations during the Persian Gulf War.

“(4) The term ‘contingency operation’ has the meaning given that term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code, and includes a humanitarian operation, peacekeeping operation, or similar operation.

