§ 460nnn–23. Land use authorities(a) In generalThe Secretary shall allow only such uses of the Federal lands included in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area as the Secretary finds will further the purposes for which the Cooperative Management and Protection Area is established.


(b) Commercial timber(1) ProhibitionThe Federal lands included in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area shall not be made available for commercial timber harvest.


(2) Limited exceptionThe Secretary may authorize the removal of trees from Federal lands in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area only if the Secretary determines that the removal is clearly needed for purposes of ecological restoration and maintenance or for public safety. Except in the Wilderness Area and the wilderness study areas referred to in section 460nnn–64(a) of this title, the Secretary may authorize the sale of products resulting from the authorized removal of trees under this paragraph.



(c) Juniper managementThe Secretary shall emphasize the restoration of the historic fire regime in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area and the resulting native vegetation communities through active management of Western Juniper on a landscape level. Management measures shall include the use of natural and prescribed burning.


(d) Hunting, fishing, and trapping(1) AuthorizationThe Secretary shall permit hunting, fishing, and trapping on Federal lands included in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area in accordance with applicable laws and regulations of the United States and the State of Oregon.


(2) Area and time limitationsAfter consultation with the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, the Secretary may designate zones where, and establish periods when, hunting, trapping or fishing is prohibited on Federal lands included in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area for reasons of public safety, administration, or public use and enjoyment.



(e) Grazing(1) Continuation of existing lawExcept as otherwise provided in this section and part F of this subchapter, the laws, regulations, and executive orders otherwise applicable to the Bureau of Land Management in issuing and administering grazing leases and permits on lands under its jurisdiction shall apply in regard to the Federal lands included in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area.


(2) Cancellation of certain permitsThe Secretary shall cancel that portion of the permitted grazing on Federal lands in the Fish Creek/Big Indian, East Ridge, and South Steens allotments located within the area designated as the “no livestock grazing area” on the map referred to in section 460nnn–11(a) of this title. Upon cancellation, future grazing use in that designated area is prohibited. The Secretary shall be responsible for installing and maintaining any fencing required for resource protection within the designated no livestock grazing area.


(3) Forage replacementReallocation of available forage shall be made as follows:(A) O’Keefe pasture within the Miners Field allotment to Stafford Ranches.

(B) Fields Seeding and Bone Creek Pasture east of the county road within the Miners Field allotment to Amy Ready.

(C) Miners Field Pasture, Schouver Seeding and Bone Creek Pasture west of the county road within the Miners Field allotment to Roaring Springs Ranch.

(D) 800 animal unit months within the Crows Nest allotment to Lowther (Clemens) Ranch.


(4) Fencing and water systemsThe Secretary shall also construct fencing and develop water systems as necessary to allow reasonable and efficient livestock use of the forage resources referred to in paragraph (3).



(f) Prohibition on construction of facilitiesNo new facilities may be constructed on Federal lands included in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area unless the Secretary determines that the structure—(1) will be minimal in nature;

(2) is consistent with the purposes of this subchapter; and

(3) is necessary—(A) for enhancing botanical, fish, wildlife, or watershed conditions;

(B) for public information, health, or safety;

(C) for the management of livestock; or

(D) for the management of recreation, but not for the promotion of recreation.



(g) WithdrawalSubject to valid existing rights, the Federal lands and interests in lands included in the Cooperative Management and Protection Areas are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, except in the case of land exchanges if the Secretary determines that the exchange furthers the purpose and objectives specified in section 460nnn–12 of this title and so certifies to Congress.


(Pub. L. 106–399, title I, § 113, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1661.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsec. (f)(2), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 106–399, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1655, known as the Steens Mountain Cooperative Management and Protection Act of 2000, which is classified generally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 460nnn of this title and Tables.


