§ 4111. Periodic reports and meetings on labor obligations and labor capacity-building provisions(a) Reports to Congress(1) In generalNot later than the end of the 2-year period beginning on the date the Agreement enters into force, and not later than the end of each 2-year period thereafter during the succeeding 14-year period, the President shall report to the Congress on the progress made by the CAFTA–DR countries in—(A) implementing Chapter Sixteen and Annex 16.5 of the Agreement; and

(B) implementing the White Paper.


(2) White PaperIn this section, the term “White Paper” means the report of April 2005 of the Working Group of the Vice Ministers Responsible for Trade and Labor in the Countries of Central America and the Dominican Republic entitled “The Labor Dimension in Central America and the Dominican Republic - Building on Progress: Strengthening Compliance and Enhancing Capacity”.


(3) Contents of reportsEach report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:(A) A description of the progress made by the Labor Cooperation and Capacity Building Mechanism established by article 16.5 and Annex 16.5 of the Agreement, and the Labor Affairs Council established by article 16.4 of the Agreement, in achieving their stated goals, including a description of the capacity-building projects undertaken, funds received, and results achieved, in each CAFTA–DR country.

(B) Recommendations on how the United States can facilitate full implementation of the recommendations contained in the White Paper.

(C) A description of the work done by the CAFTA–DR countries with the International Labor Organization to implement the recommendations contained in the White Paper, and the efforts of the CAFTA–DR countries with international organizations, through the Labor Cooperation and Capacity Building Mechanism referred to in subparagraph (A), to advance common commitments regarding labor matters.

(D) A summary of public comments received on—(i) capacity-building efforts by the United States envisaged by article 16.5 and Annex 16.5 of the Agreement;

(ii) efforts by the United States to facilitate full implementation of the White Paper recommendations; and

(iii) the efforts made by the CAFTA–DR countries to comply with article 16.5 and Annex 16.5 of the Agreement and to fully implement the White Paper recommendations, including the progress made by the CAFTA–DR countries in affording to workers internationally-recognized worker rights through improved capacity.



(4) Solicitation of public commentsThe President shall establish a mechanism to solicit public comments for purposes of paragraph (3)(D).



(b) Periodic meetings of Secretary of Labor with labor ministers of CAFTA–DR countries(1) Periodic meetingsThe Secretary of Labor should take the necessary steps to meet periodically with the labor ministers of the CAFTA–DR countries to discuss—(A) the operation of the labor provisions of the Agreement;

(B) progress on the commitments made by the CAFTA–DR countries to implement the recommendations contained in the White Paper;

(C) the work of the International Labor Organization in the CAFTA–DR countries, and other cooperative efforts, to afford to workers internationally-recognized worker rights; and

(D) such other matters as the Secretary of Labor and the labor ministers consider appropriate.


(2) Inclusion in biennial reportsThe President shall include in each report under subsection (a), as the President deems appropriate, summaries of the meetings held pursuant to paragraph (1).



(Pub. L. 109–53, title IV, § 403, Aug. 2, 2005, 119 Stat. 496.)

Termination of SectionFor termination of section by section 107(d) of Pub. L. 109–53, see Effective and Termination Dates note below.

Effective and Termination DatesSection effective on the date the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement enters into force (Mar. 1, 2006) and to cease to have effect on the date the Agreement ceases to be in force with respect to the United States, and, during any period in which a country ceases to be a CAFTA–DR country, to cease to have effect with respect to such country, see section 107 of Pub. L. 109–53, set out as a note under section 4001 of this title.


Delegation of Functions
Proc. No. 8272, June 30, 2008, 73 F.R. 38300, provided in pars. (17) and (18) that the reporting function under subsecs. (a) and (b)(2) of this section and the solicitation of public comments under subsec. (a)(4) of this section were delegated to the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the United States Trade Representative.


