§ 410iii–11. Roles of key partner organizations(a) In generalIn recognition that central portions of the Park are presently owned and operated for the benefit of the public by key partner organizations, the Secretary shall acknowledge and support the continued participation of these partner organizations in the management of the Park.


(b) Park partnersRoles of the current key partners include the following:(1) Cedar Creek Battlefield FoundationThe Cedar Creek Battlefield Foundation may—(A) continue to own, operate, and manage the lands acquired by the Foundation within the Park;

(B) continue to conduct reenactments and other events within the Park; and

(C) transfer ownership interest in portions of their land to the National Park Service by donation, sale, or other means that meet the legal requirements of National Park Service land acquisitions.


(2) National Trust for Historic Preservation and Belle Grove IncorporatedThe National Trust for Historic Preservation and Belle Grove Incorporated may continue to own, operate, and manage Belle Grove Plantation and its structures and grounds within the Park boundary. Belle Grove Incorporated may continue to own the house and grounds known as Bowman’s Fort or Harmony Hall for the purpose of permanent preservation, with a long-term goal of opening the property to the public.


(3) Shenandoah CountyShenandoah County may continue to own, operate, and manage the Keister park site within the Park for the benefit of the public.


(4) Park community partnersThe Secretary shall cooperate with the Park’s adjacent historic towns of Strasburg and Middletown, Virginia, as well as Frederick, Shenandoah, and Warren counties in furthering the purposes of the Park.


(5) Shenandoah Valley Battlefields FoundationThe Shenandoah Valley Battlefields Foundation may continue to administer and manage the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields National Historic District in partnership with the National Park Service and in accordance with the Management Plan for the District in which the Park is located.



(Pub. L. 107–373, § 13, Dec. 19, 2002, 116 Stat. 3109.)
