§ 410ddd. New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park(a) Findings and purposes(1) FindingsThe Congress finds that—(A) the New Bedford National Historic Landmark District and associated historic sites as described in subsection (c)(2) of this section, including the Schooner Ernestina, are National Historic Landmarks and are listed on the National Register of Historic Places as historic sites associated with the history of whaling in the United States;

(B) the city of New Bedford was the 19th century capital of the world’s whaling industry and retains significant architectural features, archival materials, and museum collections illustrative of this period;

(C) New Bedford’s historic resources provide unique opportunities for illustrating and interpreting the whaling industry’s contribution to the economic, social, and environmental history of the United States and provide opportunities for public use and enjoyment; and 11 So in original. The word “and” probably should not appear.

(D) during the nineteenth century, over two thousand whaling voyages sailed out of New Bedford to the Arctic region of Alaska, and joined Alaska Natives from Barrow, Alaska and other areas in the Arctic region in subsistence whaling activities; and

(E) the National Park System presently contains no sites commemorating whaling and its contribution to American history.


(2) PurposesThe purposes of this section are—(A) to help preserve, protect, and interpret the resources within the areas described in subsection (c)(2) of this section, including architecture, setting, and associated archival and museum collections;

(B) to collaborate with the city of New Bedford and with associated historical, cultural, and preservation organizations to further the purposes of the park established under this section; and

(C) to provide opportunities for the inspirational benefit and education of the American people.



(b) DefinitionsFor the purposes of this section—(1) the term “park” means the New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park established by subsection (c) of this section; and

(2) the term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.


(c) New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park(1) EstablishmentIn order to preserve for the benefit and inspiration of the people of the United States as a national historical park certain districts, structures, and relics located in New Bedford, Massachusetts, and associated with the history of whaling and related social and economic themes in America, there is established the New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park.


(2) Boundaries(A) The boundaries of the park shall be those generally depicted on the map numbered NAR–P49–80,000–4 and dated June 1994. Such map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service. In case of any conflict between the descriptions set forth in clauses (i) through (iv) and such map, such map shall govern. The park shall include the following:(i) The area included within the New Bedford Historic District (a National Landmark District), also known as the Bedford Landing Waterfront Historic District, as listed within the National Register of Historic Places and in the Massachusetts State Register of Historic Places.

(ii) The National Historic Landmark Schooner Ernestina, with its home port in New Bedford.

(iii) The land along the eastern boundary of the New Bedford National Historic Landmark District over the east side of MacArthur Drive from the Route 6 overpass on the north to an extension of School Street on the south.

(iv) The land north of Elm Street in New Bedford, bounded by Acushnet Avenue on the west, Route 6 (ramps) on the north, MacArthur Drive on the east, and Elm Street on the south.


(B) In addition to the sites, areas, and relics referred to in subparagraph (A), the Secretary may assist in the interpretation and preservation of each of the following:(i) The southwest corner of the State Pier.

(ii) Waterfront Park, immediately south of land adjacent to the State Pier.

(iii) The Rotch-Jones-Duff House and Garden Museum, located at 396 County Street.

(iv) The Wharfinger Building, located on Piers 3 and 4.

(v) The Bourne Counting House, located on Merrill’s Wharf.




(d) Related facilitiesTo ensure that the contribution of Alaska Natives to the history of whaling in the United States is fully recognized, the Secretary shall provide—(1) financial and other assistance to establish links between the New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park and the North Slope Borough Cultural Center, located in Barrow, Alaska; and

(2) appropriate assistance and funding for the North Slope Borough Cultural Center.


(e) Administration of park(1) In generalThe park shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with this section and the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including sections 1, 2, 3, 4, and 461 to 467 of this title.


(2) Cooperative agreements(A) The Secretary may consult and enter into cooperative agreements with interested entities and individuals to provide for the preservation, development, interpretation, and use of the park.

(B) Any payment made by the Secretary pursuant to a cooperative agreement under this paragraph shall be subject to an agreement that conversion, use, or disposal of the project so assisted for purposes contrary to the purposes of this section, as determined by the Secretary, shall result in a right of the United States to reimbursement of all funds made available to such project or the proportion of the increased value of the project attributable to such funds as determined at the time of such conversion, use, or disposal, whichever is greater.


(3) Non-Federal matching requirements(A) Funds authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for the purposes of—(i) cooperative agreements under paragraph (2) shall be expended in the ratio of one dollar of Federal funds for each four dollars of funds contributed by non-Federal sources; and

(ii) construction, restoration, and rehabilitation of visitors and interpretive facilities (other than annual operation and maintenance costs) shall be expended in the ratio of one dollar of Federal funds for each one dollar of funds contributed by non-Federal sources.


(B) For the purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary is authorized to accept from non-Federal sources, and to utilize for purposes of this section, any money so contributed. With the approval of the Secretary, any donation of property, services, or goods from a non-Federal source may be considered as a contribution of funds from a non-Federal source for the purposes of this paragraph.


(4) Acquisition of real propertyFor the purposes of the park, the Secretary may acquire only by donation such lands, interests in lands, and improvements thereon within the park as are needed for essential visitor contact and interpretive facilities.


(5) Other property, funds, and servicesThe Secretary may accept donated funds, property, and services to carry out this section.



(f) General management planNot later than the end of the second fiscal year beginning after November 12, 1996, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a general management plan for the park and shall implement such plan as soon as practically possible. The plan shall be prepared in accordance with section 1a–7(b) of this title and other applicable law.


(g) Authorization of appropriations(1) In generalExcept as provided in paragraph (2), there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out annual operations and maintenance with respect to the park and to carry out the activities under subsection (d) of this section.


(2) ExceptionsIn carrying out this section—(A) not more than $5,000,000 may be appropriated for construction, restoration, and rehabilitation of visitor and interpretive facilities, and directional and visitor orientation signage;

(B) none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this section may be used for the operation or maintenance of the Schooner Ernestina; and

(C) not more than $50,000 annually of Federal funds may be used for interpretive and education programs for the Schooner Ernestina pursuant to cooperative agreements under subsection (e)(2) of this section.



(Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title V, § 511, Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4159; Pub. L. 106–176, title I, § 111(a), Mar. 10, 2000, 114 Stat. 26; Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title I, § 154, Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 246.)

Amendments2003—Subsec. (g)(2)(A). Pub. L. 108–7 substituted “$5,000,000” for “$2,000,000”.
2000—Pub. L. 106–176, § 111(a)(1), substituted “Whaling National Historical Park” for “National Historic Landmark District” in section catchline.
Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 106–176, § 111(a)(2)(A), substituted “certain districts, structures, and relics” for “certain districts structures, and relics”.
Subsec. (c)(2)(A)(i). Pub. L. 106–176, § 111(a)(2)(B), substituted “The area included within the New Bedford Historic District (a National Landmark District), also known as the” for “The area included with the New Bedford National Historic Landmark District, known as the”.
Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 106–176, § 111(a)(3), struck out “to provide” before “appropriate assistance”.
Subsecs. (e), (f). Pub. L. 106–176, § 111(a)(4), redesignated subsec. (e), relating to general management plan, as (f). Former subsec. (f) redesignated (g).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 106–176, § 111(a)(4), redesignated subsec. (f) as (g).
Subsec. (g)(1). Pub. L. 106–176, § 111(a)(5)(A), substituted “subsection (d) of this section.” for “section 3(D).”
Subsec. (g)(2)(C). Pub. L. 106–176, § 111(a)(5)(B), substituted “cooperative agreements under subsection (e)(2) of this section” for “cooperative grants under subsection (d)(2) of this section”.


Change of Name
Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


