§ 410bbb–1. Establishment(a) In generalIn order to assist in the preservation, education, and interpretation of jazz as it has evolved in New Orleans, and to provide technical assistance to a broad range of organizations involved with jazz music and its history, there is hereby established the New Orleans Jazz National Historical Park (hereinafter referred to as the “historical park”). The historical park shall be administered in conjunction with the Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve, which was established to preserve and interpret the cultural and natural resources of the lower Mississippi Delta Region.


(b) Area includedThe historical park shall consist of lands and interests therein as follows:(1) Lands which the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as “the Secretary”) may designate for an interpretive visitor center complex.

(2) Sites that are the subject of cooperative agreements with the National Park Service for the purposes of interpretive demonstrations and programs associated with the purposes of this subchapter.

(3)(A) Sites designated by the Secretary as provided in subparagraph (B).

(B)(i) No later than 18 months after October 31, 1994, the Secretary is directed to complete a national historic landmark evaluation of sites associated with jazz in and around New Orleans as identified in the document entitled “New Orleans Jazz Special Resource Study”, prepared by the National Park Service pursuant to Public Law 101–499. In undertaking the evaluation, the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, utilize existing information relating to such sites.

(ii) If any of the sites evaluated are found to meet the standards of the National Historic Landmark program and National Park Service tests of suitability and feasibility, and offer outstanding opportunities to further the purposes of this subchapter, the Secretary may designate such sites as part of the historical park, following consultation with the owners of such sites, the city of New Orleans, the Smithsonian Institution, and the New Orleans Jazz Commission, and notification to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of Representatives.




(Pub. L. 103–433, title XII, § 1203, Oct. 31, 1994, 108 Stat. 4520.)


References in TextPublic Law 101–499, referred to in subsec. (b)(3)(B)(i), is Pub. L. 101–499, Nov. 2, 1990, 104 Stat. 1209, which is not classified to the Code.


