§ 2345a. Annual report on trade adjustment assistance for firms(a) In generalNot later than December 15, 2012, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall prepare a report containing data regarding the trade adjustment assistance for firms program under this part for the preceding fiscal year. The data shall include the following:(1) The number of firms that inquired about the program.

(2) The number of petitions filed under section 2341 of this title.

(3) The number of petitions certified and denied by the Secretary.

(4) The average time for processing petitions after the petitions are filed.

(5) The number of petitions filed and firms certified for each congressional district of the United States.

(6) Of the number of petitions filed, the number of firms that entered the program and received benefits.

(7) The number of firms that received assistance in preparing their petitions.

(8) The number of firms that received assistance developing business recovery plans.

(9) The number of business recovery plans approved and denied by the Secretary.

(10) The average duration of benefits received under the program nationally and in each region served by an intermediary organization referred to in section 2343(b)(1) of this title.

(11) Sales, employment, and productivity at each firm participating in the program at the time of certification.

(12) Sales, employment, and productivity at each firm upon completion of the program and each year for the 2-year period following completion of the program.

(13) The number of firms in operation as of the date of the report and the number of firms that ceased operations after completing the program and in each year during the 2-year period following completion of the program.

(14) The financial assistance received by each firm participating in the program.

(15) The financial contribution made by each firm participating in the program.

(16) The types of technical assistance included in the business recovery plans of firms participating in the program.

(17) The number of firms leaving the program before completing the project or projects in their business recovery plans and the reason the project or projects were not completed.

(18) The total amount expended by all intermediary organizations referred to in section 2343(b)(1) of this title and by each such organization to administer the program.

(19) The total amount expended by intermediary organizations to provide technical assistance to firms under the program nationally and in each region served by such an organization.


(b) Classification of dataTo the extent possible, in collecting and reporting the data described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall classify the data by intermediary organization, State, and national totals.


(c) Report to Congress; publicationThe Secretary shall—(1) submit the report described in subsection (a) to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives; and

(2) publish the report in the Federal Register and on the website of the Department of Commerce.


(d) Protection of confidential information(1) In generalThe Secretary may not release information described in subsection (a) that the Secretary considers to be confidential business information unless the person submitting the confidential business information had notice, at the time of submission, that such information would be released by the Secretary, or such person subsequently consents to the release of the information.


(2) Rule of constructionNothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit the Secretary from providing information the Secretary considers to be confidential business information under paragraph (1) to a court in camera or to another party under a protective order issued by a court.



(Pub. L. 93–618, title II, § 255A, as added Pub. L. 112–40, title II, § 221(a)(1), Oct. 21, 2011, 125 Stat. 409.)

Termination of SectionFor termination of section beginning on Jan. 1, 2014, with certain exceptions and subject to section 233(b) of Pub. L. 112–40, see Termination Date note below.

Termination DateFor termination of section beginning on Jan. 1, 2014, with certain exceptions and subject to section 233(b) of Pub. L. 112–40, see section 233 of Pub. L. 112–40, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2011 Revival note preceding section 2271 of this title.
Except as otherwise provided, technical assistance and grants may not be provided under this section after Dec. 31, 2013, see section 285 of Pub. L. 93–618, set out as a Termination Date note preceding section 2271 of this title.


