§ 5393. Ban on certain activities by senior executives and directors(a) Prohibition authorityThe Board of Governors or, if the covered financial company was not supervised by the Board of Governors, the Corporation, may exercise the authority provided by this section.


(b) Authority to issue orderThe appropriate agency described in subsection (a) may take any action authorized by subsection (c), if the agency determines that—(1) a senior executive or a director of the covered financial company, prior to the appointment of the Corporation as receiver, has, directly or indirectly—(A) violated—(i) any law or regulation;

(ii) any cease-and-desist order which has become final;

(iii) any condition imposed in writing by a Federal agency in connection with any action on any application, notice, or request by such company or senior executive; or

(iv) any written agreement between such company and such agency;


(B) engaged or participated in any unsafe or unsound practice in connection with any financial company; or

(C) committed or engaged in any act, omission, or practice which constitutes a breach of the fiduciary duty of such senior executive or director;


(2) by reason of the violation, practice, or breach described in any subparagraph of paragraph (1), such senior executive or director has received financial gain or other benefit by reason of such violation, practice, or breach and such violation, practice, or breach contributed to the failure of the company; and

(3) such violation, practice, or breach—(A) involves personal dishonesty on the part of such senior executive or director; or

(B) demonstrates willful or continuing disregard by such senior executive or director for the safety or soundness of such company.



(c) Authorized actions(1) In generalThe appropriate agency for a financial company, as described in subsection (a), may serve upon a senior executive or director described in subsection (b) a written notice of the intention of the agency to prohibit any further participation by such person, in any manner, in the conduct of the affairs of any financial company for a period of time determined by the appropriate agency to be commensurate with such violation, practice, or breach, provided such period shall be not less than 2 years.


(2) ProceduresThe due process requirements and other procedures under section 8(e) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(e)) shall apply to actions under this section as if the covered financial company were an insured depository institution and the senior executive or director were an institution-affiliated party, as those terms are defined in that Act [12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.].



(d) RegulationsThe Corporation and the Board of Governors, in consultation with the Council, shall jointly prescribe rules or regulations to administer and carry out this section, including rules, regulations, or guidelines to further define the term senior executive for the purposes of this section.


(Pub. L. 111–203, title II, § 213, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1517.)


References in TextThe Federal Deposit Insurance Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), is act Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 967, § 2, 64 Stat. 873, which is classified generally to chapter 16 (§ 1811 et seq.) of this title. The terms “insured depository institution” and “institution-affiliated party” are defined in section 3 of the Act, which is classified to section 1813 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1811 of this title and Tables.


