§ 2221. Arson prevention grants(a) DefinitionsAs used in this section:(1) ArsonThe term “arson” includes all incendiary and suspicious fires.


(2) OfficeThe term “Office” means the Office of Fire Prevention and Arson Control of the United States Fire Administration.



(b) GrantsThe Administrator, acting through the Office, shall carry out a demonstration program under which not more than 10 grant awards shall be made to States, or consortia of States, for programs relating to arson research, prevention, and control.


(c) GoalsIn carrying out this section, the Administrator shall award 2-year grants on a competitive, merit basis to States, or consortia of States, for projects that promote one or more of the following goals:(1) To improve the training by States leading to professional certification of arson investigators, in accordance with nationally recognized certification standards.

(2) To provide resources for the formation of arson task forces or interagency organizational arrangements involving police and fire departments and other relevant local agencies, such as a State arson bureau and the office of a fire marshal of a State.

(3) To combat fraud as a cause of arson and to advance research at the State and local levels on the significance and prevention of fraud as a motive for setting fires.

(4) To provide for the management of arson squads, including—(A) training courses for fire departments in arson case management, including standardization of investigative techniques and reporting methodology;

(B) the preparation of arson unit management guides; and

(C) the development and dissemination of new public education materials relating to the arson problem.


(5) To combat civil unrest as a cause of arson and to advance research at the State and local levels on the prevention and control of arson linked to urban disorders.

(6) To combat juvenile arson, such as juvenile fire-setter counseling programs and similar intervention programs, and to advance research at the State and local levels on the prevention of juvenile arson.

(7) To combat drug-related arson and to advance research at the State and local levels on the causes and prevention of drug-related arson.

(8) To combat domestic violence as a cause of arson and to advance research at the State and local levels on the prevention of arson arising from domestic violence.

(9) To combat arson in rural areas and to improve the capability of firefighters to identify and prevent arson initiated fires in rural areas and public forests.

(10) To improve the capability of firefighters to identify and combat arson through expanded training programs, including—(A) training courses at the State fire academies; and

(B) innovative courses developed with the Academy and made available to volunteer firefighters through regional delivery methods, including teleconferencing and satellite delivered television programs.



(d) Structuring of applicationsThe Administrator shall assist grant applicants in structuring their applications so as to ensure that at least one grant is awarded for each goal described in subsection (c) of this section.


(e) State qualification criteriaIn order to qualify for a grant under this section, a State, or consortium of States, shall provide assurances adequate to the Administrator that the State or consortium—(1) will obtain at least 25 percent of the cost of programs funded by the grant, in cash or in kind, from non-Federal sources;

(2) will not as a result of receiving the grant decrease the prior level of spending of funds of the State or consortium from non-Federal sources for arson research, prevention, and control programs;

(3) will use no more than 10 percent of funds provided under the grant for administrative costs of the programs; and

(4) is making efforts to ensure that all local jurisdictions will provide arson data to the National Fire Incident Reporting System or the Uniform Crime Reporting program.


(f) ExtensionA grant awarded under this section may be extended for one or more additional periods, at the discretion of the Administrator, subject to the availability of appropriations.


(g) Technical assistanceThe Administrator shall provide technical assistance to States in carrying out programs funded by grants under this section.


(h) Consultation and cooperationIn carrying out this section, the Administrator shall consult and cooperate with other Federal agencies to enhance program effectiveness and avoid duplication of effort, including the conduct of regular meetings initiated by the Administrator with representatives of other Federal agencies concerned with arson and concerned with efforts to develop a more comprehensive profile of the magnitude of the national arson problem.


(i) AssessmentNot later than 18 months after May 19, 1994, the Administrator shall submit a report to Congress that—(1) identifies grants made under this section;

(2) specifies the identity of grantees;

(3) states the goals of each grant; and

(4) contains a preliminary assessment of the effectiveness of the grant program under this section.


(j) RegulationsNot later than 90 days after May 19, 1994, the Administrator shall issue regulations to implement this section, including procedures for grant applications.


(k) AdministrationThe Administrator shall directly administer the grant program required by this section, and shall not enter into any contract under which the grant program or any portion of the program will be administered by another party.


(l) Purchase of American made equipment and products(1) Sense of CongressIt is the sense of Congress that any recipient of a grant under this section should purchase, when available and cost-effective, American made equipment and products when expending grant monies.


(2) Notice to recipients of assistanceIn allocating grants under this section, the Administrator shall provide to each recipient a notice describing the statement made in paragraph (1) by the Congress.



(Pub. L. 93–498, § 25, as added Pub. L. 103–254, § 3, May 19, 1994, 108 Stat. 679.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 2221, Pub. L. 93–498, § 25, as added Pub. L. 95–422, § 4, Oct. 5, 1978, 92 Stat. 933, authorized sale by United States Fire Administrator of former Marjorie Webster Junior College facility, located in Washington, D.C., which had previously been purchased as site for National Academy for Fire Prevention and Control, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 97–80, title II, § 202(b), Nov. 20, 1981, 95 Stat. 1083.


