§ 539l–2. James Peak Fall River trailhead(a) Services and facilitiesFollowing the consultation required by subsection (c) of this section, the Forest Supervisor of the Arapaho/Roosevelt National Forest in the State of Colorado (in this section referred to as the “Forest Supervisor”) shall establish a trailhead and corresponding facilities and services to regulate use of National Forest System lands in the vicinity of the Fall River basin south of the communities of Alice Township and St. Mary’s Glacier in the State of Colorado. The facilities and services shall include the following:(1) Trailhead parking.

(2) Public restroom accommodations.

(3) Trailhead and trail maintenance.


(b) PersonnelThe Forest Supervisor shall assign Forest Service personnel to provide appropriate management and oversight of the area described in subsection (a) of this section.


(c) ConsultationThe Forest Supervisor shall consult with the Clear Creek County commissioners and with residents of Alice Township and St. Mary’s Glacier regarding—(1) the appropriate location of facilities and services in the area described in subsection (a) of this section; and

(2) appropriate measures that may be needed in this area—(A) to provide access by emergency or law enforcement vehicles;

(B) for public health; and

(C) to address concerns regarding impeded access by local residents.



(d) ReportAfter the consultation required by subsection (c) of this section, the Forest Supervisor shall submit to the Committee on Resources and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report regarding the amount of any additional funding required to implement this section.


(Pub. L. 107–216, § 5, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1060.)


Change of Name
Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


