§ 460jjj–2. Minerals and mining(a) Limitation on patent issuance(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no patents shall be issued after May 30, 1991, for any location or claim made in the recreation area under the mining laws of the United States.

(2) Notwithstanding any statute of limitations or similar restriction otherwise applicable, any party claiming to have been deprived of any property right by enactment of paragraph (1) may file in the United States Claims Court 11 See Change of Name note below. a claim against the United States within 1 year after October 12, 1993, seeking compensation for such property right. The United States Claims Court 1 shall have jurisdiction to render judgment upon any such claim in accordance with section 1491 of title 28.


(b) WithdrawalSubject to valid existing rights, after October 12, 1993, lands within the recreation area withdrawn from location under the general mining laws and from the operation of the mineral leasing, geothermal leasing, and mineral material disposal laws.


(c) ReclamationNo mining activity involving any surface disturbance of lands or waters within such area, including disturbance through subsidence, shall be permitted except in accordance with requirements imposed by the Secretary, including requirements for reasonable reclamation of disturbed lands to a visual and hydrological condition as close as practical to their premining condition.


(d) Mining claim validity reviewThe Secretary of Agriculture shall undertake and complete within 3 years after October 12, 1993, an expedited program to examine all unpatented mining claims, including those for which a patent application has been filed, within the recreation area. Upon determination by the Secretary of Agriculture that the elements of a contest are present, the Secretary of the Interior shall immediately determine the validity of such claims. If a claim is determined to be invalid, the Secretary shall promptly declare the claim to be null and void.


(e) Public purposesThe Secretary may utilize mineral materials from within the recreation area for public purposes such as maintenance and construction of roads, trails, and facilities as long as such use is compatible with the purposes of the recreation area.


(Pub. L. 103–104, § 3, Oct. 12, 1993, 107 Stat. 1028.)


Change of Name
References to United States Claims Court deemed to refer to United States Court of Federal Claims, see section 902(b) of Pub. L. 102–572, set out as a note under section 171 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


