§ 1562. Database on domestic violence incidents(a) Database on Domestic Violence Incident.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish a central database of information on the incidents of domestic violence involving members of the armed forces.

(b) Reporting of Information for the Database.—The Secretary shall require that the Secretaries of the military departments maintain and report annually to the administrator of the database established under subsection (a) any information received on the following matters:(1) Each domestic violence incident reported to a commander, a law enforcement authority of the armed forces, or a family advocacy program of the Department of Defense.

(2) The number of those incidents that involve evidence determined sufficient for supporting disciplinary action and, for each such incident, a description of the substantiated allegation and the action taken by command authorities in the incident.

(3) The number of those incidents that involve evidence determined insufficient for supporting disciplinary action and for each such case, a description of the allegation.


(Added Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 594(a), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 643.)

Improvements to Department of Defense Domestic Violence ProgramsPub. L. 111–383, div. A, title V, § 543, Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4218, provided that:
“(a) Implementation of Outstanding Comptroller General Recommendations.—Consistent with the recommendations contained in the report of the Comptroller General of the United States titled ‘Status of Implementation of GAO’s 2006 Recommendations on the Department of Defense’s Domestic Violence Program’ (GAO–10–577R), the Secretary of Defense shall complete, not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act [Jan. 7, 2011], implementation of actions to address the following recommendations:“(1) Defense incident-based reporting system.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop a comprehensive management plan to address deficiencies in the data captured in the Defense Incident-Based Reporting System to ensure the system can provide an accurate count of domestic violence incidents, and any consequent disciplinary action, that are reported throughout the Department of Defense.

“(2) Adequate personnel.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan to ensure that adequate personnel are available to implement recommendations made by the Defense Task Force on Domestic Violence.

“(3) Domestic violence training data for chaplains.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan to collect domestic violence training data for chaplains.

“(4) Oversight framework.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop an oversight framework for Department of Defense domestic violence programs, to include oversight of implementation of recommendations made by the Defense Task Force on Domestic Violence, including budgeting, communication initiatives, and policy compliance.


“(b) Implementation Report.—The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] an implementation report within 90 days of the completion of actions outlined in subsection (a).”




Comptroller General Review and ReportPub. L. 108–136, div. A, title V, § 575, Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1486, provided that:
“(a) Review.—During the two-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 24, 2003], the Comptroller General shall review and assess the progress of the Department of Defense in implementing the recommendations of the Defense Task Force on Domestic Violence. In reviewing the status of the Department’s efforts, the Comptroller General should specifically focus on—“(1) the efforts of the Department to ensure confidentiality for victims and accountability and education of commanding officers and chaplains; and

“(2) the resources that the Department of Defense has provided toward such implementation, including personnel, facilities, and other administrative support, in order to ensure that necessary resources are provided to the organization within the Office of the Secretary of Defense with direct responsibility for oversight of implementation by the military departments of recommendations of the Task Force in order for that organization to carry out its duties and responsibilities.


“(b) Report.—The Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on the results of the review and assessment under subsection (a) not later than 30 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 24, 2003].”




Defense Task Force on Domestic ViolencePub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 591, Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 639, as amended by Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title V, § 575, Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1123, directed the Secretary of Defense to establish a Department of Defense Task Force on Domestic Violence; required the task force to submit to the Secretary of Defense a long-term, strategic plan to address matters relating to domestic violence within the military more effectively, to review the victims’ safety program under Pub. L. 106–65, § 592, set out below, and other matters relating to acts of domestic violence involving members of the Armed Forces, and to submit to the Secretary an annual report on its activities and activities of the military departments; directed the Secretary to submit the report and the Secretary’s evaluation of the report to committees of Congress; and provided for the termination of the task force on Apr. 24, 2003.

Incentive Program for Improving Responses to Domestic Violence Involving Members of the Armed Forces and Military Family MembersPub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 592, Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 642, provided that:
“(a) Purpose.—The purpose of this section is to provide a program for the establishment on military installations of collaborative projects involving appropriate elements of the Armed Forces and the civilian community to improve, strengthen, or coordinate prevention and response efforts to domestic violence involving members of the Armed Forces, military family members, and others.

“(b) Program.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish a program to provide funds and other incentives to commanders of military installations for the following purposes:“(1) To improve coordination between military and civilian law enforcement authorities in policies, training, and responses to, and tracking of, cases involving military domestic violence.

“(2) To develop, implement, and coordinate with appropriate civilian authorities tracking systems (A) for protective orders issued to or on behalf of members of the Armed Forces by civilian courts, and (B) for orders issued by military commanders to members of the Armed Forces ordering them not to have contact with a dependent.

“(3) To strengthen the capacity of attorneys and other legal advocates to respond appropriately to victims of military domestic violence.

“(4) To assist in educating judges, prosecutors, and legal offices in improved handling of military domestic violence cases.

“(5) To develop and implement more effective policies, protocols, orders, and services specifically devoted to preventing, identifying, and responding to domestic violence.

“(6) To develop, enlarge, or strengthen victims’ services programs, including sexual assault and domestic violence programs, developing or improving delivery of victims’ services, and providing confidential access to specialized victims’ advocates.

“(7) To develop and implement primary prevention programs.

“(8) To improve the response of health care providers to incidents of domestic violence, including the development and implementation of screening protocols.


“(c) Priority.—The Secretary shall give priority in providing funds and other incentives under the program to installations at which the local program will emphasize building or strengthening partnerships and collaboration among military organizations such as family advocacy program, military police or provost marshal organizations, judge advocate organizations, legal offices, health affairs offices, and other installation-level military commands between those organizations and appropriate civilian organizations, including civilian law enforcement, domestic violence advocacy organizations, and domestic violence shelters.

“(d) Applications.—The Secretary shall establish guidelines for applications for an award of funds under the program to carry out the program at an installation.

“(e) Awards.—The Secretary shall determine the award of funds and incentives under this section. In making a determination of the installations to which funds or other incentives are to be provided under the program, the Secretary shall consult with an award review committee consisting of representatives from the Armed Forces, the Department of Justice, the Department of Health and Human Services, and organizations with a demonstrated expertise in the areas of domestic violence and victims’ safety.”




Uniform Department of Defense Policies for Responses to Domestic ViolencePub. L. 106–65, div. A, title V, § 593, Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 643, provided that:
“(a) Requirement.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe the following:“(1) Standard guidelines to be used by the Secretaries of the military departments for negotiating agreements with civilian law enforcement authorities relating to acts of domestic violence involving members of the Armed Forces.

“(2) A requirement (A) that when a commanding officer issues to a member of the Armed Forces under that officer’s command an order that the member not have contact with a specified person that a written copy of that order be provided within 24 hours after the issuance of the order to the person with whom the member is ordered not to have contact, and (B) that there be a system of recording and tracking such orders.

“(3) Standard guidelines on the factors for commanders to consider when seeking to substantiate allegations of domestic violence by a person subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice and when determining appropriate action for such allegations that are so substantiated.

“(4) A standard training program for all commanding officers in the Armed Forces, including a standard curriculum, on the handling of domestic violence cases.


“(b) Deadline.—The Secretary of Defense shall carry out subsection (a) not later than six months after the date on which the Secretary receives the first report of the Defense Task Force on Domestic Violence under section 591(e) [set out as a note above].”





