§ 155a. Assistants to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for National Guard matters and Reserve matters(a) Establishment of Positions.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish the following positions within the Joint Staff:(1) Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for National Guard Matters.

(2) Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for Reserve Matters.


(b) Selection.—(1) The Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for National Guard Matters shall be selected by the Chairman from officers of the Army National Guard of the United States or the Air Guard of the United States who—(A) are recommended for such selection by their respective Governors or, in the case of the District of Columbia, the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard;

(B) have had at least 10 years of federally recognized commissioned service in the National Guard and significant joint duty experience, as determined by the Chairman; and

(C) are in a grade above the grade of colonel.


(2) The Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for Reserve Matters shall be selected by the Chairman from officers of the Army Reserve, the Navy Reserve, the Marine Corps Reserve, or the Air Force Reserve who—(A) are recommended for such selection by the Secretary of the military department concerned;

(B) have had at least 10 years of commissioned service in their reserve component and significant joint duty experience, as determined by the Chairman; and

(C) are in a grade above the grade of colonel or, in the case of the Navy Reserve, captain.



(c) Term of Office.—Each Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under subsection (a) serves at the pleasure of the Chairman for a term of two years and may be continued in that assignment in the same manner for one additional term. However, in time of war there is no limit on the number of terms.

(d) Grade.—Each Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under subsection (a), while so serving, holds the grade of major general or, in the case of the Navy Reserve, rear admiral. Each such officer shall be considered to be serving in a position covered by the limited exclusion from the authorized strength of general officers and flag officers on active duty provided by section 526(b) of this title.

(e) Duties.—(1) The Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for National Guard Matters is an adviser to the Chairman on matters relating to the National Guard and performs the duties prescribed for that position by the Chairman.

(2) The Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for Reserve Matters is an adviser to the Chairman on matters relating to the reserves and performs the duties prescribed for that position by the Chairman.


(f) Other Reserve Component Representation on Joint Staff.—The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall develop appropriate policy guidance to ensure that, to the maximum extent practicable, the level of representation of reserve component officers on the Joint Staff is commensurate with the significant role of the reserve components within the armed forces.

(Added Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 511(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1717.)

Prior ProvisionsProvisions similar to those in this section were contained in Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title IX, § 901, Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1853, which was set out as a note under section 155 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 112–239, § 511(c).


