§ 1202. Exemptions(a) Exports; risk of injury to residents of United StatesThis chapter shall not apply to any fabric, related material, or product which is to be exported from the United States, if such fabric, related material, or product, and any container in which it is enclosed, bears a stamp or label stating that such fabric, related material, or product is intended for export and such fabric, related material, or product is in fact exported from the United States; unless the Commission determines that exportation of such fabric, related material, or product presents an unreasonable risk of injury to persons residing within the United States; except that this chapter shall apply to any fabric, related material, or product manufactured for sale, offered for sale, or intended for shipment to any installation of the United States located outside of the United States.


(b) Imports intended for export; risk of injury to residents of United StatesThis chapter shall not apply to any fabric, related material, or product which is imported into the United States for dyeing, finishing, other processing, or storage in bond, and export from the United States, if such fabric, related material, or product, and any container in which it is enclosed, bears a stamp or label stating that such fabric, related material, or product is intended for export, and such fabric, related material, or product is in fact exported from the United States, unless the Commission determines that exportation of such fabric, related material, or product presents an unreasonable risk of injury to persons residing within the United States; except that this chapter shall apply to any such imported fabric, related material, or product manufactured for sale, offered for sale, or intended for shipment to any installation of the United States located outside of the United States.


(c) Statement of exportation: filing period, information; notification of foreign country; petition for minimum filing period; good causeNot less than thirty days before any person exports to a foreign country any fabric, related material, or product that fails to conform to an applicable flammability standard or regulation in effect under this chapter, such person shall file a statement with the Commission notifying the Commission of such exportation, and the Commission, upon receipt of such statement, shall promptly notify the government of such country of such exportation and of the basis for such flammability standard or regulation. Any statement filed with the Commission under the preceding sentence shall specify the anticipated date of shipment of such fabric, related material, or product, the country and port of destination of such fabric, related material, or product, and the quantity of such fabric, related material, or product that will be exported, and shall contain such other information as the Commission may by regulation require. Upon petition filed with the Commission by any person required to file a statement under this subsection respecting an exportation, the Commission may, for good cause shown, exempt such person from the requirement of this subsection that such a statement be filed no less than thirty days before the date of the exportation, except that in no case shall the Commission permit such a statement to be filed later than the tenth day before such date.


(d) Authority to prohibit exportsNotwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Consumer Product Safety Commission may prohibit, by order, a person from exporting from the United States for purpose of sale any fabric or related material that the Commission determines is not in conformity with an applicable standard or rule under this chapter, unless the importing country has notified the Commission that such country accepts the importation of such fabric or related material, provided that if the importing country has not so notified the Commission within 30 days after the Commission has provided notice to the importing country of the impending shipment, the Commission may take such action as is appropriate with respect to the disposition of the fabric or related material under the circumstances.


(e) Export pursuant to section 2066(e)Nothing in this section shall apply to any fabric or related material, the export of which is permitted by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 2066(e) of this title.


(June 30, 1953, ch. 164, § 15, as added Pub. L. 90–189, § 10, Dec. 14, 1967, 81 Stat. 574; amended Pub. L. 95–631, § 8(a), Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3746; Pub. L. 110–314, title II, §§ 204(c)(2)(F), 221(b), Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3042, 3066.)

Amendments2008—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 110–314, § 204(c)(2)(F), which directed the substitution of “Commission” for “Consumer Product Safety Commission (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ‘Commission’) in section 15 (15 U.S.C. 1202)”, was executed by making the substitution for “Consumer Product Safety Commission (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ‘Commission’)” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Subsecs. (d), (e). Pub. L. 110–314, § 221(b), added subsecs. (d) and (e).
1978—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95–631, § 8(a)(1), made chapter applicable to exports when the Commission determines that exportation presents an unreasonable risk of injury to persons residing within the United States.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95–631, § 8(a)(2), made chapter applicable to imports intended for export when the Commission determines that exportation presents an unreasonable risk of injury to persons residing within the United States.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 95–631, § 8(a)(3), added subsec. (c).


