§ 835j. Projects marketing commercial power and energy; consolidated financial statement to President and Congress; adjustment of rates to assure return of reimbursable construction costs within prescribed period
The Secretary of the Interior shall prepare, maintain, and present annually to the President and the Congress a consolidated financial statement for all projects heretofore or hereafter authorized, including the third powerplant at Grand Coulee Dam, from or by means of which commercial power and energy is marketed through the facilities of the Federal Columbia River power system and for all other projects associated therewith to the extent that the costs of these projects are required by law to be charged to and returned from net revenues derived from the power and energy, or any power and energy, so marketed, and he shall, if said consolidated statement indicates that the reimbursable construction costs of the projects, or any of the projects, covered thereby which are chargeable to and returnable from the commercial power and energy so marketed are likely not to be returned within the period prescribed by law, take prompt action to adjust the rates charged for such power and energy to the extent necessary to assure such return.
(Pub. L. 89–448, § 2(a), formerly § 2, June 14, 1966, 80 Stat. 200, renumbered Pub. L. 89–561, § 6(1), Sept. 7, 1966, 80 Stat. 714.)

Codification
Section is comprised of first sentence of first par. of section 2(a) of Pub. L. 89–448, as so designated by Pub. L. 89–561. Second sentence of the first par. repealed section 832h(c) of this title; second par. of such section 2(a) is classified to section 835k of this title; subsecs. (b) and (c) of section 2 are classified to sections 835l and 835m of this title, respectively.

Termination of Reporting RequirementsFor termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of this section requiring annual presentation to Congress of a consolidated financial statement, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66, as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and the 11th item on page 86 of House Document No. 103–7.


Transfer of Functions
Power marketing functions of Bureau of Reclamation, including construction, operation, and maintenance of transmission lines and attendant facilities, transferred to Secretary of Energy by section 7152(a)(1)(E), (3) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, and are to be exercised by Secretary through a separate Administration within Department of Energy.


Ex. Ord. No. 8526. Coordinating the Electrical Facilities of Grand Coulee Dam Project and Bonneville Project
Ex. Ord. No. 8526, Aug. 26, 1940, 5 F.R. 3390, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 12038, § 3(a), Feb. 3, 1978, 43 F.R. 4957, provided:
WHEREAS the Bureau of Reclamation is constructing the Grand Coulee Dam Project [now Columbia Basin Project] pursuant to authority delegated under section 2 of the act of August 30, 1935, 49 Stat. 1028, 1039, and in connection therewith will operate and maintain facilities for the generation of electrical power and energy; and
WHEREAS the Bonneville Power Administrator is now disposing of power and energy generated at the Bonneville Project; and
WHEREAS integration and coordination of the electrical facilities of the two projects will be facilitated by a mutual exchange of the electrical power and energy generated at the Bonneville Project and the Grand Coulee Dam Project and by marketing the power and energy from both projects through a single agency:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by section 2 of the act of August 30, 1935, supra, and supplementing my letter of January 29, 1936, to the Secretary of the Interior, it is hereby ordered as follows:
1. The Bonneville Power Administrator is hereby designated, under the supervision and direction of the Secretary of Energy, as agent for the sale and distribution of electrical power and energy generated at the Grand Coulee Dam Project and not required for operation of that Project, including its irrigation features.
2. The Administrator shall construct, operate, and maintain the transmission lines and substations and appurtenant structures and facilities necessary for marketing the power and energy delivered to him from the Grand Coulee Dam Project; except that the Bureau of Reclamation may construct, operate, or maintain such transmission facilities as the Secretary of the Interior, in his discretion, deems necessary or desirable. The Bureau of Reclamation and the Administrator, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, shall agree upon and schedule the installation of additional generators at the Grand Coulee Dam Project.
3. The Bureau of Reclamation, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, shall provide the Administrator with a basic schedule of the power and energy to be available to him from the Grand Coulee Dam Project. The Bureau, with the Secretary’s approval, may revise the schedule from time to time, except that no revision decreasing the amount of power and energy available under an existing schedule shall be effective unless agreed to by the Administrator. The Bureau will make power and energy from the Grand Coulee Dam Project available to the Administrator in accordance with these schedules.
4. The Administrator shall market the power and energy delivered to him from the Grand Coulee Dam Project at rates to be fixed by the Secretary of Energy consistently with all applicable provisions of law and allocations of cost determined as provided thereunder. From time to time the Secretary of Energy, consistently with all applicable provisions of law and allocations of cost made pursuant thereto, shall determine the basis on which the Administrator and the Bureau shall compute the returns to be made to the Bureau for power and energy delivered to the Administrator from the Grand Coulee Dam Project pursuant to this order. All receipts collected by the Administrator from transmission and sale of power and energy shall be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States for credit to a special account, subject to allocation by the Secretary of Energy in accordance with the computations above provided for. Upon certification by the Secretary of Energy, the amounts of receipts properly allocable to the Bonneville Project shall be covered into the Treasury of the United States to the credit of miscellaneous receipts subject to the provisions of section 2 of the act of August 20, 1937, 50 Stat. 731, 732 [16 U.S.C. 832a]. The amounts certified by the Secretary of Energy as being allocable to the Grand Coulee Dam Project shall be covered into the Treasury for credit to the Reclamation Fund to the extent authorized by law.
5. In aid of this delegation of authority to the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Energy, the Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation and the Bonneville Power Administrator shall, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Energy, and the terms of this order, enter into any and all agreements that are necessary for the interconnection of the Bonneville Project and the Grand Coulee Dam Project and to carry out the provisions of this order.


