§ 2006a. Assistance for education and training: availability of certain assistance for use only for certain programs of education(a) In General.—Effective as of August,11 So in original. 1, 2014, an individual eligible for assistance under a Department of Defense educational assistance program or authority covered by this section may, except as provided in subsection (b), only use such assistance for educational expenses incurred for a program as follows:(1) An eligible program (as defined in section 481 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1088)) that is offered by an institution of higher education that has entered into, and is complying with, a program participation agreement under section 487 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1094).

(2) In the case of a program designed to prepare individuals for licensure or certification in any State, if the program meets the instructional curriculum licensure or certification requirements of such State.

(3) In the case of a program designed to prepare individuals for employment pursuant to standards developed by a State board or agency in an occupation that requires approval or licensure for such employment, if the program is approved or licensed by such State board or agency.


(b) Waiver.—The Secretary of Defense may, by regulation, authorize the use of educational assistance under a Department of Defense educational assistance program or authority covered by this chapter for educational expenses incurred for a program of education that is not described in subsection (a) if the program—(1) is accredited and approved by a nationally or regionally recognized accrediting agency or association recognized by the Department of Education;

(2) was not an eligible program described in subsection (a) at any time during the most recent two-year period;

(3) is a program that the Secretary determines would further the purposes of the educational assistance programs or authorities covered by this chapter, or would further the education interests of students eligible for assistance under the such 1 programs or authorities; and

(4) the institution providing the program does not provide any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any persons or entities engaged in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the award of student financial assistance, except for the recruitment of foreign students residing in foreign countries who are not eligible to receive Federal student assistance.


(c) Definitions.—In this section:(1) The term “Department of Defense educational assistance programs and authorities covered by this section” means the programs and authorities as follows:(A) The programs to assist military spouses in achieving education and training to expand employment and portable career opportunities under section 1784a of this title.

(B) The authority to pay tuition for off-duty training or education of members of the armed forces under section 2007 of this title.

(C) The program of educational assistance for members of the Selected Reserve under chapter 1606 of this title.

(D) The program of educational assistance for reserve component members supporting contingency operations and certain other operations under chapter 1607 of this title.

(E) Any other program or authority of the Department of Defense for assistance in education or training carried out under the laws administered by the Secretary of Defense that is designated by the Secretary, by regulation, for purposes of this section.


(2) The term “institution of higher education” has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act for 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).


(Added Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title V, § 541(a), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 760.)

Effective DatePub. L. 113–66, div. A, title V, § 541(c), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 762, provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting this section] shall take effect on August 1, 2014.”



