§ 2353. Contracts: acquisition, construction, or furnishing of test facilities and equipment(a) A contract of a military department for research or development, or both, may provide for the acquisition or construction by, or furnishing to, the contractor, of research, developmental, or test facilities and equipment that the Secretary of the military department concerned determines to be necessary for the performance of the contract. The facilities and equipment, and specialized housing for them, may be acquired or constructed at the expense of the United States, and may be lent or leased to the contractor with or without reimbursement, or may be sold to him at fair value. This subsection does not authorize new construction or improvements having general utility.

(b) Facilities that would not be readily removable or separable without unreasonable expense or unreasonable loss of value may not be installed or constructed under this section on property not owned by the United States, unless the contract contains—(1) a provision for reimbursing the United States for the fair value of the facilities at the completion or termination of the contract or within a reasonable time thereafter;

(2) an option in the United States to acquire the underlying land; or

(3) an alternative provision that the Secretary concerned considers to be adequate to protect the interests of the United States in the facilities.


(c) Proceeds of sales or reimbursements under this section shall be paid into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts, except to the extent otherwise authorized by law with respect to property acquired by the contractor.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 134.)











Historical and Revision Notes


Revised sectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


2353(a)5:235e (1st sentence; and 2d sentence, less 2d and last provisos).5:475j (1st sentence; and 2d sentence, less 2d and last provisos).July 16, 1952, ch. 882, § 4 (less 3d and last sentences), 66 Stat. 725.
 5:628e (1st sentence; and 2d sentence, less 2d and last provisos).
2353(b)5:235e (2d proviso of 2d sentence).
 5:475j (2d proviso of 2d sentence).
 5:628e (2d proviso of 2d sentence).
2353(c)5:235e (last proviso of 2d sentence).
 5:475j (last proviso of 2d sentence).
 5:628e (last proviso of 2d sentence).


In subsection (a), the words “furnished to” and “for the use thereof” are omitted as surplusage.
In subsections (a) and (b), the words “United States” are substituted for the word “Government”.
In subsection (b), the introductory clause is substituted for 5:235e (words of 2d proviso before clause (1)), 475j, and 628e. The words “that * * * considers” are substituted for the words “as will in the opinion”. The words “an alternative” are substituted for the words “such other”.
In subsection (c), the words “Proceeds of” are substituted for the words “That all moneys arising from”.

Limitations on Modifications of Certain Government-Furnished Equipment; One-Time Authority To Transfer a Certain Military PrototypePub. L. 111–84, div. A, title X, § 1043, Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2456, as amended by Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title X, § 1075(d)(12), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4373, provided that:
“(a) Limitation.—An article of military equipment that is an end item of a major weapon system may not be furnished or transferred to a private entity for the conduct of research, development, test and evaluation under contractual agreement with the Department of Defense, if such research, development, test, and evaluation necessitates significantly modifying the military equipment, until the senior acquisition official of a military department, or his designee, submits to the congressional defense committees certification in writing—“(1) that the modification of such article of military equipment is necessary to execute the contractual scope of work and there is no suitable alternative to modifying such article;

“(2) that the research, development, test, and evaluation effort is of sufficient interest to the military department to warrant the modification of such article of military equipment;

“(3) that—“(A) prior to the end of the period of performance of such a contractual agreement, the article of military equipment will be restored to its original condition; or

“(B) it is not necessary to restore the article of military equipment to its original condition because the military department intends to dispose of the equipment or operate the equipment in its modified form.


“(4) that the private entity has sufficient resources and capability to fully perform the contractual research, development, test, and evaluation; and

“(5) that the military department has—“(A) identified the scope of future test and evaluation likely to be required prior to transition of the associated technology to a program of record; and

“(B) a plan for the conduct of such future test and evaluation, including the anticipated roles and responsibilities of government and the private entity, as applicable.



“(b) Certification.—No military equipment that is an end item of a major weapons system may be transferred or furnished to a private entity for purposes of research and development as authorized under subsection (a) unless the senior officer of the military service concerned certifies to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] that such equipment is not essential to the defense of the United States.

“(c) One-time Authority to Transfer.—The Secretary of the Navy may transfer, to Piasecki Aircraft Corporation of Essington, Pennsylvania (in this section referred to as ‘transferee’), all right, title, and interest of the United States, except as otherwise provided in this subsection, in and to Navy aircraft N40VT (Bureau Number 163283), also known as the X–49A aircraft, and associated components and test equipment, previously specified as Government-furnished equipment in contract N00019–00–C–0284. The transferee shall provide consideration for the transfer of such military equipment to the transferor of an amount not to exceed fair value, as determined, on a non-delegable basis, by the Secretary.

“(d) Applicable Law.—The transfer or use of military equipment is subject to all applicable Federal and State laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the Arms Export Control Act [22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.], the Export Administration Act of 1979 [50 U.S.C. App. 2401 et seq.], continued under Executive Order 12924 [listed in a table under 50 U.S.C. 1701], International Traffic in Arms Regulations (22 C.F.R. 120 et seq.), Export Administration Regulations (15 C.F.R. 730 et seq.), Foreign Assets Control Regulations (31 C.F.R. 500 et seq.), and the Espionage Act [act June 15, 1917, ch. 30, 40 Stat. 217, see Tables for classification].

“(e) Condition of Equipment to Be Transferred.—“(1) As-is condition.—The military equipment transferred under subsection (c) shall be transferred in its current ‘as-is’ condition. The Secretary is not required to repair or alter the condition of any military equipment before transferring any interest in such equipment under subsection (c).

“(2) Spare parts or equipment.—The Secretary of the Navy is not required to provide spare parts or equipment as a result of the transfer authorized under subsection (c).


“(f) Transfer at No Cost to the United States.—The transfer of military equipment under subsection (c) shall be made at no cost to the United States. Any costs associated with the transfer shall be borne by the transferee.

“(g) Additional Terms and Conditions.—The Secretary shall require that the transfer authorized by section (c) be carried out by means of a written agreement and shall require, at a minimum, the following conditions to the transfer:“(1) A condition stipulating that the transfer of the X-49A aircraft is for the sole purpose of further development, test, and evaluation of vectored thrust ducted propeller (hereinafter in this section referred to as ‘VTDP’) technology.

“(2) A condition providing the Government the right to procure the VTDP technology demonstrated under this program at a discounted cost based on the value of the X-49A aircraft and associated equipment at the time of transfer, with such valuation and terms determined by the Secretary.

“(3) A condition that the transferee not transfer any interest in, or transfer possession of, the military equipment transferred under subsection (b) to any other party without the prior written approval of the Secretary.

“(4) A condition that if the Secretary determines at any time that the transferee has failed to comply with a condition set forth in paragraphs (1) through (3), all items referred to in subsection (b) shall be transferred back to the Navy, at no cost to the United States.

“(5) A condition that the transferee acknowledges sole responsibility of the X-49A aircraft and associated equipment and assumes all liability for operation of the X-49A aircraft and associated equipment.


“(h) No Liability for the United States.—Upon the transfer of military equipment under subsection (b), the United States shall not be liable for any death, injury, loss, or damage that results from the use of such military equipment by any person other than the United States.

“(i) Additional Terms and Conditions.—The Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with a transfer under subsection (b) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

“(j) Definitions.—In this subsection:“(1) The term ‘major system’ has the meaning provided in section 2302 of title 10, United States Code.

“(2) The term ‘contractual agreement’ includes contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and other transactions.”





Use of Research and Development Funds for Test Facilities and EquipmentPub. L. 99–190, § 101(b) [title VIII, § 8015], Dec. 19, 1985, 99 Stat. 1185, 1205, which provided that appropriations available to the Department of Defense for research and development could be used for 10 U.S.C. 2353 and for purposes related to research and development for which expenditures are specifically authorized in other appropriations of the Service concerned, was repealed and restated in section 2351(b) of this title by Pub. L. 100–370, § 1(g)(1)(B), (2), July 19, 1988, 102 Stat. 846.


