§ 1008. Notification of Secretary of the Interior of approval of assistance; surveys and investigations; report and recommendations; consideration; cost of surveys, investigations and reports
When the Secretary approves the furnishing of assistance to a local organization in preparing a plan for works of improvement as provided for in section 1003 of this title:(1) The Secretary shall so notify the Secretary of the Interior in order that the latter, as he desires, may make surveys and investigations and prepare a report with recommendations concerning the conservation and development of wildlife resources and participate, under arrangements satisfactory to the Secretary of Agriculture, in the preparation of a plan for works of improvement that is acceptable to the local organization and the Secretary of Agriculture.

(2) Full consideration shall be given to the recommendations contained in any such report of the Secretary of the Interior as he may submit to the Secretary of Agriculture prior to the time the local organization and the Secretary of Agriculture have agreed on a plan for works of improvement. The plan shall include such of the technically and economically feasible works of improvement for wildlife purposes recommended in the report by the Secretary of the Interior as are acceptable to, and agreed to by, the local organization and the Secretary of Agriculture, and such report of the Secretary of the Interior shall, if requested by the Secretary of the Interior, accompany the plan for works of improvement when it is submitted to the Secretary of Agriculture for approval or transmitted to the Congress through the President.

(3) The cost of making surveys and investigations and of preparing reports concerning the conservation and development of wildlife resources shall be borne by the Secretary of the Interior out of funds appropriated to his Department.

(Aug. 4, 1954, ch. 656, § 12, as added Pub. L. 85–624, § 3, Aug. 12, 1958, 72 Stat. 567.)


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of certain enforcement functions of Secretary or other official in Department of Agriculture under this chapter to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, and subsequent transfer to Secretary of Energy, then to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects, see note set out under section 1002 of this title.


