§ 635i–5. Environmental policy and procedures(a) Environmental effects consideration(1) In generalConsistent with the objectives of section 635(b)(1)(A) of this title, the Bank shall establish procedures to take into account the potential beneficial and adverse environmental effects of goods and services for which support is requested under its direct lending and guarantee programs. Such procedures shall provide for the public disclosure of environmental assessments and supplemental environmental reports required to be submitted to the Bank, including remediation or mitigation plans and procedures, and related monitoring reports. The preceding sentence shall not be interpreted to require the public disclosure of any information described in section 1905 of title 18. Such procedures shall apply to any transaction involving a project—(A) for which long-term support of $10,000,000 or more is requested from the Bank;

(B) for which the Bank’s support would be critical to its implementation; and

(C) which may have significant environmental effects upon the global commons or any country not participating in the project, or may produce an emission, an effluent, or a principal product that is prohibited or strictly regulated pursuant to Federal environmental law.


(2) Authority to withhold financingThe procedures established under paragraph (1) shall permit the Board of Directors, in its judgment, to withhold financing from a project for environmental reasons or to approve financing after considering the potential environmental effects of a project.



(b) Use of Bank programs to encourage certain exports(1) In generalThe Bank shall encourage the use of its programs to support the export of goods and services that have beneficial effects on the environment or mitigate potential adverse environmental effects (such as exports of products and services used to aid in the monitoring, abatement, control, or prevention of air, water, and ground contaminants or pollution, or which provide protection in the handling of toxic substances, subject to a final determination by the Bank, and products and services for foreign environmental projects dedicated entirely to the prevention, control, or cleanup of air, water, or ground pollution, including facilities to provide for control or cleanup, and used in the retrofitting of facility equipment for the sole purpose of mitigating, controlling, or preventing adverse environmental effects, subject to a final determination by the Bank). The Board of Directors shall name an officer of the Bank to advise the Board on ways that the Bank’s programs can be used to support the export of such goods and services. The officer shall act as liaison between the Bank and other Federal Government agencies, including the agencies whose representatives are members of the Environmental Trade Promotion Working Group of the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee, with respect to overall United States Government policy on the environment.


(2) Limitations on authorization of appropriationsIn addition to other funds available to support the export of goods and services described in paragraph (1), there are authorized to be appropriated to the Bank not more than $35,000,000 for the cost (as defined in section 661a(5) of title 2) of supporting such exports. If, in any fiscal year, the funds appropriated in accordance with this paragraph are not fully utilized due to insufficient qualified transactions for the export of such goods and services, such funds may be expended for other purposes eligible for support by the Bank.



(c) Inclusion in report to CongressThe Bank shall provide in its annual report to the Congress a summary of its activities under subsections (a) and (b).


(d) InterpretationNothing in this section shall be construed to create any cause of action.


(July 31, 1945, ch. 341, § 11, formerly § 17, as added and renumbered § 11, Pub. L. 102–429, title I, §§ 106, 121(c)(5), Oct. 21, 1992, 106 Stat. 2189, 2199; amended Pub. L. 103–428, § 2(a), Oct. 31, 1994, 108 Stat. 4376; Pub. L. 109–438, § 18(b), Dec. 20, 2006, 120 Stat. 3281.)

Codification
Another section 11 of act July 31, 1945, ch. 341, was renumbered section 14 and is classified to section 635i–8 of this title.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 11 of act July 31, 1945, ch. 341, was renumbered section 9 and is classified to section 635h of this title.

Amendments2006—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 109–438 inserted after first sentence “Such procedures shall provide for the public disclosure of environmental assessments and supplemental environmental reports required to be submitted to the Bank, including remediation or mitigation plans and procedures, and related monitoring reports. The preceding sentence shall not be interpreted to require the public disclosure of any information described in section 1905 of title 18.”
1994—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 103–428 inserted par. (1) designation and heading, inserted before period at end of first sentence “(such as exports of products and services used to aid in the monitoring, abatement, control, or prevention of air, water, and ground contaminants or pollution, or which provide protection in the handling of toxic substances, subject to a final determination by the Bank, and products and services for foreign environmental projects dedicated entirely to the prevention, control, or cleanup of air, water, or ground pollution, including facilities to provide for control or cleanup, and used in the retrofitting of facility equipment for the sole purpose of mitigating, controlling, or preventing adverse environmental effects, subject to a final determination by the Bank)”, and added par. (2).


