§ 2276. Commercial space launch cooperation(a) Authority.—The Secretary of Defense may take such actions as the Secretary considers to be in the best interest of the Federal Government to—(1) maximize the use of the capacity of the space transportation infrastructure of the Department of Defense by the private sector in the United States;

(2) maximize the effectiveness and efficiency of the space transportation infrastructure of the Department of Defense;

(3) reduce the cost of services provided by the Department of Defense related to space transportation infrastructure at launch support facilities and space recovery support facilities;

(4) encourage commercial space activities by enabling investment by covered entities in the space transportation infrastructure of the Department of Defense; and

(5) foster cooperation between the Department of Defense and covered entities.


(b) Authority for Contracts and Other Agreements Relating to Space Transportation Infrastructure.—The Secretary of Defense—(1) may enter into an agreement with a covered entity to provide the covered entity with support and services related to the space transportation infrastructure of the Department of Defense; and

(2) upon the request of such covered entity, may include such support and services in the space launch and reentry range support requirements of the Department of Defense if—(A) the Secretary determines that the inclusion of such support and services in such requirements—(i) is in the best interest of the Federal Government;

(ii) does not interfere with the requirements of the Department of Defense; and

(iii) does not compete with the commercial space activities of other covered entities, unless that competition is in the national security interests of the United States; and


(B) any commercial requirement included in the agreement has full non-Federal funding before the execution of the agreement.



(c) Contributions.—(1) In general.—The Secretary of Defense may enter into an agreement with a covered entity on a cooperative and voluntary basis to accept contributions of funds, services, and equipment to carry out this section.

(2) Use of contributions.—Any funds, services, or equipment accepted by the Secretary under this subsection—(A) may be used only for the objectives specified in this section in accordance with terms of use set forth in the agreement entered into under this subsection; and

(B) shall be managed by the Secretary in accordance with regulations of the Department of Defense.


(3) Requirements with respect to agreements.—An agreement entered into with a covered entity under this subsection—(A) shall address the terms of use, ownership, and disposition of the funds, services, or equipment contributed pursuant to the agreement; and

(B) shall include a provision that the covered entity will not recover the costs of its contribution through any other agreement with the United States.



(d) Defense Cooperation Space Launch Account.—(1) Establishment.—There is established in the Treasury of the United States a special account to be known as the “Defense Cooperation Space Launch Account”.

(2) Crediting of funds.—Funds received by the Secretary of Defense under subsection (c) shall be credited to the Defense Cooperation Space Launch Account.

(3) Use of funds.—Funds deposited in the Defense Cooperation Space Launch Account under paragraph (2) are authorized to be appropriated and shall be available for obligation only to the extent provided in advance in an appropriation Act for costs incurred by the Department of Defense in carrying out subsection (b). Funds in the Account shall remain available until expended.


(e) Annual Report.—Not later than January 31 of each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the funds, services, and equipment accepted and used by the Secretary under this section during the preceding fiscal year.

(f) Regulations.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section.

(g) Definitions.—In this section:(1) Covered entity.—The term “covered entity” means a non-Federal entity that—(A) is organized under the laws of the United States or of any jurisdiction within the United States; and

(B) is engaged in commercial space activities.


(2) Launch support facilities.—The term “launch support facilities” has the meaning given the term in section 50501(7) of title 51.

(3) Space recovery support facilities.—The term “space recovery support facilities” has the meaning given the term in section 50501(11) of title 51.

(4) Space transportation infrastructure.—The term “space transportation infrastructure” has the meaning given that term in section 50501(12) of title 51.


(Added Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title IX, § 912(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1872.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 2276, acts Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 126; Sept. 7, 1962, Pub. L. 87–651, title I, § 131, 76 Stat. 514, which related to inspection and audit of plants and books of contractors and provided criminal penalties for violations, was repealed by Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title VIII, § 821(a)(1), Nov. 30, 1993, 107 Stat. 1704.


