§ 460bbb–2. Establishment(a) In generalFor the purposes of ensuring the preservation, protection, enhancement, and interpretation for present and future generations of the Smith River watershed’s outstanding wild and scenic rivers, ecological diversity, and recreation opportunities while providing for the wise use and sustained productivity of its natural resources, there is hereby established the Smith River National Recreation Area.


(b) Boundaries(1) The recreation area shall consist of those lands within the area generally depicted on the map entitled “Proposed Smith River National Recreation Area” and dated July 1990. The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief, Forest Service, Department of Agriculture. The Secretary may, by publication of availability of a revised map and after public comment, make corrections or minor changes to the boundary of the recreation area.

(2) The exterior boundary of the recreation area, as generally depicted on the map, shall encompass the recreation area and the four excluded areas.


(c) Boundary modificationThe boundaries of the Six Rivers National Forest are hereby modified as generally depicted on the map referred to in subsection (b) of this section. A map and legal description of the boundary of the Six Rivers National Forest as modified by this subsection shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the Chief, Forest Service, and the Office of the Forest Supervisor of the Six Rivers National Forest.


(d) TransferThe federally owned lands within the recreation area administered by the Secretary of the Interior on November 16, 1990, comprising approximately 20 acres, are hereby transferred to the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture and shall be managed in accordance with the laws applicable to the National Forest System and this subchapter.


(Pub. L. 101–612, § 4, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3210.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsec. (d), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 101–612, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3209, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 460bbb of this title and Tables.


