“SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.“(a) Establishment.—There is established a commission to be known as the ‘Women’s Progress Commemoration Commission’ (referred to in this Act as the ‘Commission’).

“(b) Membership.—“(1) In general.—The Commission shall be composed of 15 members, of whom—“(A) 3 shall be appointed by the President;

“(B) 3 shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;

“(C) 3 shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives;

“(D) 3 shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate; and

“(E) 3 shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate.


“(2) Persons eligible.—“(A) In general.—The members of the Commission shall be individuals who have knowledge or expertise, whether by experience or training, in matters to be studied by the Commission. The members may be from the public or private sector, and may include Federal, State, or local employees, members of academia, nonprofit organizations, or industry, or other interested individuals.

“(B) Diversity.—It is the intent of Congress that persons appointed to the Commission under paragraph (1) be persons who represent diverse economic, professional, and cultural backgrounds.


“(3) Consultation and appointment.—“(A) In general.—The President, Speaker of the House of Representatives, minority leader of the House of Representatives, majority leader of the Senate, and minority leader of the Senate shall consult among themselves before appointing the members of the Commission in order to achieve, to the maximum extent practicable, fair and equitable representation of various points of view with respect to the matters to be studied by the Commission.

“(B) Completion of appointments; vacancies.—The President, Speaker of the House of Representatives, minority leader of the House of Representatives, majority leader of the Senate, and minority leader of the Senate shall conduct the consultation under subparagraph (3) and make their respective appointments not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 31, 1998].


“(4) Vacancies.—A vacancy in the membership of the Commission shall not affect the powers of the Commission and shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment not later than 30 days after the vacancy occurs.


“(c) Meetings.—“(1) Initial meeting.—Not later than 30 days after the date on which all members of the Commission have been appointed, the Commission shall hold its first meeting.

“(2) Subsequent meetings.—After the initial meeting, the Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairperson.


“(d) Quorum.—A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.

“(e) Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.—The Commission shall select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among its members.

