“SEC. 1092. ACTIONS TO PREVENT THE ABUSE OF DETAINEES.“(a) Policies Required.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that policies are prescribed not later than 150 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2004] regarding procedures for Department of Defense personnel and contractor personnel of the Department of Defense intended to ensure that members of the Armed Forces, and all persons acting on behalf of the Armed Forces or within facilities of the Armed Forces, treat persons detained by the United States Government in a humane manner consistent with the international obligations and laws of the United States and the policies set forth in section 1091(b).

“(b) Matters to Be Included.—In order to achieve the objective stated in subsection (a), the policies under that subsection shall specify, at a minimum, procedures for the following:“(1) Ensuring that each commander of a Department of Defense detention facility or interrogation facility—“(A) provides all assigned personnel with training, and documented acknowledgment of receiving training, regarding the law of war, including the Geneva Conventions; and

“(B) establishes standard operating procedures for the treatment of detainees.


“(2) Ensuring that each Department of Defense contract in which contract personnel in the course of their duties interact with individuals detained by the Department of Defense on behalf of the United States Government include a requirement that such contract personnel have received training, and documented acknowledgment of receiving training, regarding the international obligations and laws of the United States applicable to the detention of personnel.

“(3) Providing all detainees with information, in their own language, of the applicable protections afforded under the Geneva Conventions.

“(4) Conducting periodic unannounced and announced inspections of detention facilities in order to provide continued oversight of interrogation and detention operations.

“(5) Ensuring that, to the maximum extent practicable, detainees and detention facility personnel of a different gender are not alone together.


“(c) Secretary of Defense Certification.—The Secretary of Defense shall certify that all Federal employees and civilian contractors engaged in the handling or interrogation of individuals detained by the Department of Defense on behalf of the United States Government have fulfilled an annual training requirement on the law of war, the Geneva Conventions, and the obligations of the United States under international law.”

