§ 4106. Reports to Congress
After consultation with the States receiving funds under this chapter and with any interstate commission involved in carrying out a project under this chapter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate not later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year 1988, and each second fiscal year occurring after that fiscal year, a report which contains—(1) a description of each project and law enforcement effort receiving funds under this chapter during the last 2 fiscal years ending before such report is submitted;

(2) a specification of the total amount of funds from the Federal Government and the total amount of funds from each State spent on each project and a law enforcement effort receiving funds under this chapter during the last 2 fiscal years ending before such report is submitted;

(3) an assessment of each project and law enforcement effort receiving funds under this chapter during the last 2 fiscal years ending before such report is submitted to determine whether such project is furthering the purposes of this chapter; and

(4) a statement specifying all funds which have been apportioned pursuant to section 4104(a) of this title and are available for obligation by a State or the Secretary but which have not been obligated.

(Pub. L. 99–659, title III, § 307, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3735.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this title”, meaning title III of Pub. L. 99–659, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3731, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4101 of this title and Tables.


Abolition of House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives abolished and its jurisdiction transferred by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995. Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Resources of House of Representatives in case of provisions relating to fisheries, wildlife, international fishing agreements, marine affairs (including coastal zone management) except for measures relating to oil and other pollution of navigable waters, or oceanography by section 1(b)(3) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress. Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


