“SEC. 1648. STANDARDS FOR MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES, SPECIALTY MEDICAL CARE FACILITIES, AND MILITARY QUARTERS HOUSING PATIENTS AND ANNUAL REPORT ON SUCH FACILITIES.“(a) Establishment of Standards.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish for the military facilities of the Department of Defense and the military departments referred to in subsection (b) standards with respect to the matters set forth in subsection (c). To the maximum extent practicable, the standards shall—“(1) be uniform and consistent for all such facilities; and

“(2) be uniform and consistent throughout the Department of Defense and the military departments.


“(b) Covered Military Facilities.—The military facilities covered by this section are the following:“(1) Military medical treatment facilities.

“(2) Specialty medical care facilities.

“(3) Military quarters or leased housing for patients.


“(c) Scope of Standards.—The standards required by subsection (a) shall include the following:“(1) Generally accepted standards for the accreditation of medical facilities, or for facilities used to quarter individuals that may require medical supervision, as applicable, in the United States.

“(2) To the extent not inconsistent with the standards described in paragraph (1), minimally acceptable conditions for the following:“(A) Appearance and maintenance of facilities generally, including the structure and roofs of facilities.

“(B) Size, appearance, and maintenance of rooms housing or utilized by patients, including furniture and amenities in such rooms.

“(C) Operation and maintenance of primary and back-up facility utility systems and other systems required for patient care, including electrical systems, plumbing systems, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems, communications systems, fire protection systems, energy management systems, and other systems required for patient care.

“(D) Compliance of facilities, rooms, and grounds, to the maximum extent practicable, with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.).

“(E) Such other matters relating to the appearance, size, operation, and maintenance of facilities and rooms as the Secretary considers appropriate.



“(d) Compliance With Standards.—“(1) Deadline.—In establishing standards under subsection (a), the Secretary shall specify a deadline for compliance with such standards by each facility referred to in subsection (b). The deadline shall be at the earliest date practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008], and shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be uniform across the facilities referred to in subsection (b).

“(2) Investment.—In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall also establish guidelines for investment to be utilized by the Department of Defense and the military departments in determining the allocation of financial resources to facilities referred to in subsection (b) in order to meet the deadline specified under paragraph (1).


“(e) Report on Development and Implementation of Standards.—“(1) In general.—Not later than March 1, 2008, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees [Committees on Armed Services and Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives] a report on the actions taken to carry out subsection (a).

“(2) Elements.—The report under paragraph (1) shall include the following:“(A) The standards established under subsection (a).

“(B) An assessment of the appearance, condition, and maintenance of each facility referred to in subsection (b), including—“(i) an assessment of the compliance of the facility with the standards established under subsection (a); and

“(ii) a description of any deficiency or noncompliance in each facility with the standards.


“(C) A description of the investment to be allocated to address each deficiency or noncompliance identified under subparagraph (B)(ii).



“(f) Annual Report.—Not later than the date on which the President submits the budget for a fiscal year to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the adequacy, suitability, and quality of each facility referred to in subsection (b). The Secretary shall include in each report information regarding—“(1) any deficiencies in the adequacy, quality, or state of repair of medical-related support facilities raised as a result of information received during the period covered by the report through the toll-free hot line required by section 1616; and

“(2) the investigations conducted and plans of action prepared under such section to respond to such deficiencies.


