§ 281c. Inclusion of lands(a) Indian trust land; Federal-ownership sites; cooperation with Nez Perce Tribe and administrative agencies in research, services, and facilities for public access, use and enjoyment, and conservation of resourcesIndian trust land may be designated by the Secretary of the Interior for inclusion in the Nez Perce National Historical Park with the concurrence of the beneficial owner. Sites in Federal ownership under the administrative jurisdiction of other Government agencies may likewise be designated by the Secretary of the Interior for inclusion in the Nez Perce National Historical Park with the concurrence of the agency having administrative responsibility therefor, but such designation shall effect no transfer of administrative control unless the administering agency consents thereto. The Secretary of the Interior may cooperate with the Nez Perce Tribe or the administering agency, as the case may be, in research into and interpretation of the significance of any site so designated and in providing desirable interpretive services and facilities and other facilities required for public access to and use and enjoyment of the site and in conservation of the scenic and other resources thereof.


(b) Cooperative agreements with property owners of non-Federal property; access; written consent for changes in properties, buildings, and grounds; other provisionsThe Secretary of the Interior may enter into cooperative agreements with the owners of property which, under the provisions of this subchapter, may be designated for inclusion in Nez 11 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “the”. Perce National Historical Park as sites in non-Federal ownership, and he may assist in the preservation, renewal, and interpretation of the properties, provided the cooperative agreements shall contain, but not be limited to, provisions that: (1) the Secretary has right of access at all reasonable times to all public portions of the property for the purpose of conducting visitors through the property and interpreting it to the public, and (2) no changes or alterations shall be made in the properties, including buildings and grounds, without the written consent of the Secretary.


(Pub. L. 89–19, § 4, May 15, 1965, 79 Stat. 110; Pub. L. 102–576, § 2(4), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4771.)

Amendments1992—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 102–576 struck out after second sentence “Not more than one thousand and five hundred acres overall shall be designated pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this subsection.”


