§ 410qq–1. Establishment(a) In generalIn order to carry out the purposes expressed in section 410qq(b) of this title, the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Secretary”) shall establish the National Park of American Samoa (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the “park”). The Secretary shall establish the park only when the Governor of American Samoa has entered into a lease with the Secretary under which the Secretary will lease for a period of 50 years the lands and waters generally referred to in subsection (b) of this section for use solely for purposes of the park. Immediately after October 31, 1988, the Secretary shall commence negotiations with the Governor of American Samoa respecting such a lease agreement. On or before the expiration of the lease agreement as set forth in this subsection, the Governor of American Samoa is encouraged to extend the lease to maintain the area as a unit of the National Park System. At such time as the lease may terminate the Government of American Samoa is urged to provide assurances to the Secretary that the lands and waters generally referred to in subsection (b) of this section will be protected and preserved to the same standards as are applicable to national parks.


(b) Area included(1) The park shall consist of three units as generally depicted on the following maps entitled “Boundary Map, National Park of American Samoa”: (A) map number NP–AS 80,000A, dated August 1988, (B) map number NP–AS 80,000B, dated August 1988, and (C) map number NP–AS 80,000C, dated August 1988. Before publication of the maps, the Secretary, after consultation with the Governor of American Samoa and other appropriate leaders, may adjust the boundaries of the park to correspond with the appropriate village boundaries and modify the maps accordingly. The maps shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The Secretary may at any time make revisions of the boundary of the park in accordance with section 460l–9(c) of this title, pursuant to agreement with the Governor of American Samoa, and contingent upon the lease to the Secretary of lands within the new boundaries.

(2) The Secretary may make adjustments to the boundary of the park to include within the park certain portions of the islands of Ofu and Olosega, as depicted on the map entitled “National Park of American Samoa, Proposed Boundary Adjustment”, numbered 82,035 and dated February 2002, pursuant to an agreement with the Governor of American Samoa and contingent upon the lease to the Secretary of the newly added lands. As soon as practicable after a boundary adjustment under this paragraph, the Secretary shall modify the maps referred to in paragraph (1) accordingly.


(c) Management by American SamoaNotwithstanding section 410qq–2(a) of this title, after 50 years after October 31, 1988, the Secretary shall, if requested by the Governor of American Samoa, enter into an extension of the lease referred to in subsection (a) of this section. If the Governor does not request such an extension the Secretary shall transfer to the Governor the sole authority to administer the park. Whenever the Secretary makes such a transfer he shall also transfer any improvements constructed by the Secretary in the park to the Governor without compensation.


(d) Compensation under lease agreement(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary is authorized and directed to negotiate with the Governor of American Samoa the amount of the payments to be made by the United States under the 50-year lease referred to in subsection (a) of this section. The Secretary shall make such payments as may be mutually agreed to by the Secretary and the Governor pursuant to such negotiations.

(2) The Secretary shall place all lease payments made by the United States under the lease in an interest bearing escrow account in American Samoa. Funds in such account may be disbursed only by the Governor, in amounts determined by the High Court of American Samoa, to those villages and families located within the boundaries of the park. The High Court of American Samoa shall have exclusive jurisdiction to determine the amount to be disbursed under this section to any person.

(3) If the amount of the lease payments to be made under the lease is not agreed upon within 1 year after October 31, 1988, the Secretary shall establish the escrow account referred to in paragraph (2) within 30 days after the expiration of such 1-year period and shall make monthly payments of $25,000 per month into the account until such time as the full value of the lease payments is agreed to and deposited. Such deposits, together with the interest thereon, may be used only to cover the amounts of the lease payments due and payable pursuant to an agreement under this subsection. If the amounts deposited in such account, together with interest thereon, exceeds 11 So in original. Probably should be “exceed”. the amount of the lease payments due and payable at the time the agreement is entered into, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the excess shall be transferred to the accounts provided to the Secretary for operation and maintenance and for development of the park.


(Pub. L. 100–571, § 2, Oct. 31, 1988, 102 Stat. 2879; Pub. L. 107–336, § 1, Dec. 16, 2002, 116 Stat. 2882.)

Amendments2002—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 107–336 designated existing provisions as par. (1), substituted “(A)”, “(B)”, and “(C)” for “(1)”, “(2)”, and “(3)”, respectively, and added par. (2).


