§ 11. Authorization of appropriations
There is authorized to be appropriated, out of the Treasury of the United States, such sums as may be necessary to carry out all provisions of this title.
(Aug. 31, 1954, ch. 1158, 68 Stat. 1014.)

Historical and Revision NotesSection is new, and has been inserted to supply the customary authorization of appropriations necessary in carrying out any of the provisions of this title.

Bureau of the Census Working Capital FundPub. L. 104–208, div. A, title I, § 101(a) [title II, § 210], Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009, 3009–41, provided that: “There is hereby established the Bureau of the Census Working Capital Fund, which shall be available without fiscal year limitation, for expenses and equipment necessary for the maintenance and operation of such services and projects as the Director of the Census Bureau determines may be performed more advantageously when centralized: Provided, That such central services shall, to the fullest extent practicable, be used to make unnecessary the maintenance of separate like services in the divisions and offices of the Bureau: Provided further, That a separate schedule of expenditures and reimbursements, and a statement of the current assets and liabilities of the Working Capital Fund as of the close of the last completed fiscal year, shall be prepared each year: Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Working Capital Fund may be credited with advances and reimbursements from applicable appropriations of the Bureau and from funds of other agencies or entities for services furnished pursuant to law: Provided further, That any inventories, equipment, and other assets pertaining to the services to be provided by such funds, either on hand or on order, less the related liabilities or unpaid obligations, and any appropriations made hereafter for the purpose of providing capital, shall be used to capitalize the Working Capital Fund: Provided further, That the Working Capital Fund shall provide for centralized services at rates which will return in full all expenses of operation, including depreciation of fund plant and equipment, amortization of automated data processing software and hardware systems, and an amount necessary to maintain a reasonable operating reserve as determined by the Director.”



