§ 2867. Energy monitoring and utility control system specification for military construction and military family housing activities(a) Adoption of Department-wide, Open Protocol, Energy Monitoring and Utility Control System Specification.—(1) The Secretary of Defense shall adopt an open protocol energy monitoring and utility control system specification for use throughout the Department of Defense in connection with a military construction project, military family housing activity, or other activity under this chapter for the purpose of monitoring and controlling, with respect to the project or activity, the items specified in paragraph (2) with the goal of establishing installation-wide energy monitoring and utility control systems.

(2) The energy monitoring and utility control system specification required by paragraph (1) shall cover the following:(A) Utilities and energy usage, including electricity, gas, steam, and water usage.

(B) Indoor environments, including temperature and humidity levels.

(C) Heating, ventilation, and cooling components.

(D) Central plant equipment.

(E) Renewable energy generation systems.

(F) Lighting systems.

(G) Power distribution networks.



(b) Exclusion.—(1) The energy monitoring and utility control system specification required by subsection (a) is not required to apply to projects carried out under the authority provided in subchapter IV of chapter 169 of this title.

(2) The Secretary concerned may waive the application of the energy monitoring and utility control system specification required by subsection (a) with respect to a specific military construction project, military family housing activity, or other activity under this chapter if the Secretary determines that the application of the specification to the project or activity is not life cycle cost-effective. The Secretary concerned shall notify the congressional defense committees of any waiver granted under this paragraph.


(Added Pub. L. 111–84, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2841(a)(1), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2679.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 2867 was renumbered section 2916 of this title.

Deadline for AdoptionPub. L. 111–84, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2841(a)(3), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2680, provided that: “The Secretary of Defense shall adopt the open protocol energy monitoring and utility control system specification required by section 2867 of title 10, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2009].”



