§ 1735f–18. Information regarding early defaults and foreclosures on insured mortgages(a) In generalThe Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall collect and maintain information regarding early defaults on mortgages as provided under this section. The Secretary shall make such information available for public inspection upon request. Information shall be collected quarterly with respect to each applicable collection period (as such term is defined in subsection (c)) and shall be available for inspection not more than 30 days after the conclusion of the calendar quarter relating to each such period. Information shall first be made available under this section for the applicable collection period relating to the first calendar quarter ending more than 180 days after November 28, 1990.


(b) Contents(1) Mortgage lender analysisInformation collected under this section shall include, for each lender originating mortgages during the applicable collection period that are insured pursuant to section 1709 of this title and secured by property in a designated census tract, the following information with respect to such mortgages:(A) The name of the lender and the number of each designated census tract in which the lender originated 1 or more such mortgages during the applicable collection period.

(B) The total number of such mortgages originated by such lender during the applicable collection period in each designated census tract and the number of mortgages originated each year in each designated census tract.

(C) The total number of defaults and foreclosures on such mortgages during the applicable collection period in each designated census tract and the number of defaults and foreclosures in each designated census tract in each year of the period.

(D) For each designated census tract, the percentage of such lender’s total insured mortgages originated during each year of the applicable collection period (with respect to properties within such census tract) on which defaults or foreclosures have occurred during the applicable collection period.

(E) The total of all such originations, defaults, and foreclosures on insured mortgages originated by such lender during the applicable collection period for all designated census tracts and the percentage of the total number of such lender’s insured mortgage originations on which defaults or foreclosures have occurred during the applicable collection period.


(2) Other informationInformation collected under this section shall also include the following:(A) For each lender referred to under paragraph (1), the total number of insured mortgages originated by the lender secured by properties not located in a designated census tract, the total number of defaults and foreclosures on such mortgages, and the percentage of such mortgages originated on which defaults or foreclosures occurred during the applicable collection period.

(B) For each designated census tract, the total number of mortgages originated during the applicable collection period that are insured pursuant to section 1709 of this title, the number of defaults and foreclosures occurring on such mortgages during such period, and the percentage of the total insured mortgage originations during the period on which defaults or foreclosures occurred.



(c) Annual reportsThe Secretary shall submit to the Congress annually a report containing the information collected and maintained under subsection (b) for the relevant year.


(d) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section:(1) Applicable collection periodThe term “applicable collection period” means the 5-year period ending on the last day of the calendar quarter for which information under this section is collected.


(2) Designated census tractThe term “designated census tract” means a census tract located within a metropolitan statistical area, as defined pursuant to regulations issued by the Secretary of Commerce.



(June 27, 1934, ch. 847, title V, § 540, as added Pub. L. 101–625, title III, § 335(a), Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4142.)

Availability of Information Regarding Default/Claim Rates During TransitionPub. L. 101–625, title III, § 335(b), Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4144, provided that: “During the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 28, 1990] and ending on the date of the initial availability of information under section 540 of the National Housing Act [12 U.S.C. 1735f–18] (as added by subsection (a)), the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall make publicly available all reports regarding Default/Claim Rates per Regional Office for Fiscal Year 1990 Endorsements that are produced by the Department of Housing and Urban Development during such period.”



