§ 460n–1. Boundaries of area; filing of map with Federal Register; revision; donations of land; property acquisition and exclusion
Lake Mead National Recreation Area shall comprise that particular land and water area which is shown on a certain map, identified as “boundary map, RA–LM–7060–B, revised July 17, 1963”, which is on file and which shall be available for public inspection in the office of the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior. An exact copy of such map shall be filed with the Federal Register within thirty days following October 8, 1964, and an exact copy thereof shall be available also for public inspection in the headquarters office of the superintendent of the said Lake Mead National Recreation Area.
The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to revise the boundaries of such national recreation area, subject to the requirement that the total acreage of that area, as revised, shall be no greater than the present acreage thereof. In the event of such boundary revision, maps of the recreation area, as revised, shall be prepared by the Department of the Interior, and shall be filed in the same manner, and shall be available for public inspection also in accordance with the aforesaid procedures and requirements relating to the filing and availability of maps. The Secretary may accept donations of land and interests in land within the exterior boundaries of such area, or such property may be procured by the Secretary in such manner as he shall consider to be in the public interest.
In exercising his authority to acquire property by exchange, the Secretary may accept title to any non-Federal property located within the boundaries of the recreation area and convey to the grantor of such property any federally owned property under the jurisdiction of the Secretary, notwithstanding any other provision of law. The properties so exchanged shall be approximately equal in fair market value: Provided, That the Secretary may accept cash from or pay cash to the grantor in such an exchange in order to equalize the values of the properties exchanged.
Establishment or revision of the boundaries of the said national recreation area, as herein prescribed, shall not affect adversely any valid rights in the area, nor shall it affect the validity of withdrawals heretofore made for reclamation or power purposes. All lands in the recreation area which have been withdrawn or acquired by the United States for reclamation purposes shall remain subject to the primary use thereof for reclamation and power purposes so long as they are withdrawn or needed for such purposes. There shall be excluded from the said national recreation area by the Secretary of the Interior any property for management or protection by the Bureau of Reclamation, which would be subject otherwise to inclusion in the said recreation area, and which the Secretary of the Interior considers in the national interest should be excluded therefrom.
(Pub. L. 88–639, § 2, Oct. 8, 1964, 78 Stat. 1039.)

Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction to National Park ServicePub. L. 107–282, title III, § 302, Nov. 6, 2002, 116 Stat. 2006, provided that:
“(a) In General.—Administrative jurisdiction over the parcel of land described in subsection (b) is transferred from the Bureau of Land Management to the National Park Service for inclusion in the Lake Mead National Recreation Area.

“(b) Description of Land.—The parcel of land referred to in subsection (a) is the approximately 10 acres of Bureau of Land Management land, as depicted on the map entitled ‘Eldorado/Spirit Mountain’ and dated October 1, 2002.

“(c) Use of Land.—The parcel of land described in subsection (b) shall be used by the National Park Service for administrative facilities.”





