§ 6981. Support of athletic and physical fitness programs(a) Authority.—(1) Contracts and cooperative agreements.—The Secretary of the Navy may enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with the Naval Academy Athletic Association for the purpose of supporting the athletic and physical fitness programs of the Naval Academy. Notwithstanding section 2304(k) of this title, the Secretary may enter such contracts or cooperative agreements on a sole source basis pursuant to section 2304(c)(5) of this title. Notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, a cooperative agreement under this section may be used to acquire property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Naval Academy.

(2) Leases.—The Secretary may enter into leases, in accordance with section 2667 of this title, or licenses with the Association for the purpose of supporting the athletic and physical fitness programs of the Naval Academy. Any such lease or license shall be deemed to satisfy the conditions of section 2667(h)(2) of this title.


(b) Use of Navy Personal Property by the Association.—The Secretary may allow the Association to use, at no cost, personal property of the Department of the Navy to assist the Association in supporting the athletic and physical fitness programs of the Naval Academy.

(c) Acceptance of Support.—(1) Support received from the association.—Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, the Secretary may accept from the Association funds, supplies, and services for the support of the athletic and physical fitness programs of the Naval Academy. For purposes of this section, employees or personnel of the Association may not be considered to be employees of the United States.

(2) Funds received from ncaa.—The Secretary may accept funds from the National Collegiate Athletic Association to support the athletic and physical fitness programs of the Naval Academy.

(3) Limitation.—The Secretary shall ensure that contributions under this subsection do not reflect unfavorably on the ability of the Department of the Navy, any of its employees, or any member of the armed forces to carry out any responsibility or duty in a fair and objective manner, or compromise the integrity or appearance of integrity of any program of the Department of the Navy, or any individual involved in such a program.


(d) Retention and Use of Funds.—Notwithstanding section 2260(d) of this title, funds received under this section may be retained for use in support of athletic and physical fitness programs of the Naval Academy and shall remain available until expended.

(e) Trademarks and Service Marks.—(1) Licensing, marketing, and sponsorship agreements.—An agreement under subsection (a)(1) may, consistent with sections 2260 (other than subsection (d)) and 5022(b)(3) of this title, authorize the Association to enter into licensing, marketing, and sponsorship agreements relating to trademarks and service marks identifying the Naval Academy, subject to the approval of the Department of the Navy.

(2) Limitations.—No such licensing, marketing, or sponsorship agreement may be entered into if it would reflect unfavorably on the ability of the Department of the Navy, any of its employees, or any member of the armed forces to carry out any responsibility or duty in a fair and objective manner, or if the Secretary determines that the use of the trademark or service mark would compromise the integrity or appearance of integrity of any program of the Department of the Navy, or any individual involved in such a program.


(f) Service on Association Board of Control.—The Association is a designated entity for which authorization under sections 1033(a) and 1589(a) of this title may be provided.

(g) Conditions.—The authority provided in this section with respect to the Association is available only so long as the Association continues to—(1) qualify as a nonprofit organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and operates in accordance with this section, the laws of the State of Maryland, and the constitution and bylaws of the Association; and

(2) operate exclusively to support the athletic and physical fitness programs of the Naval Academy.


(h) Association Defined.—In this section, the term “Association” means the Naval Academy Athletic Association.

(Added Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 542(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1735.)


References in TextSection 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsec. (g)(1), is classified to section 501(c)(3) of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.


