§ 1891d. Secretarial representative for international fisheries(a) In generalThe Secretary, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, shall designate a Senate-confirmed, senior official within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to perform the duties of the Secretary with respect to international agreements involving fisheries and other living marine resources, including policy development and representation as a U.S. Commissioner, under any such international agreements.


(b) AdviceThe designated official shall, in consultation with the Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Affairs and the Administrator of the National Marine Fisheries Service, advise the Secretary, Undersecretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, and other senior officials of the Department of Commerce and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration on development of policy on international fisheries conservation and management matters.


(c) ConsultationThe designated official shall consult with the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House Committee on Resources on matters pertaining to any regional or international negotiation concerning living marine resources, including shellfish.


(d) DelegationThe designated official may delegate and authorize successive re-delegation of such functions, powers, and duties to such officers and employees of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration as deemed necessary to discharge the responsibility of the Office.


(e) Effective dateThis section shall take effect on January 1, 2009.


(Pub. L. 109–479, title IV, § 408, Jan. 12, 2007, 120 Stat. 3634.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Reauthorization Act of 2006, and not as part of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act which comprises this chapter.


Change of Name
Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


