§ 460x–2. Designation of lakeshore areas(a) Area categories; publication in Federal RegisterWithin thirty days, or as soon as possible thereafter, after October 21, 1970, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a map or other description of the lakeshore delineating areas constituting the following categories:
Category I, public use and development areas.
Category II, environmental conservation areas.
Category III, private use and development areas.


(b) Acquisition of lands and interests therein of category I areasLands and interests therein designated as category I may be acquired by the Secretary in accordance with section 460x–7 of this title.


(c) Designation of lands as within categories II and III for acquisition by Secretary; publication in Federal RegisterWithin one hundred and fifty days after October 21, 1970, the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register an additional map or other description of those lands, if any, designated as within categories II and III for acquisition by him in fee in accordance with section 460x–7 of this title.


(d) Acquisition of interests in lands designated as category II; limitationsExcept as provided in subsection (f) of this section, the Secretary may, after the publication provided for in subsection (c) of this section, acquire only such interests in lands designated as category II, other than those to be acquired in fee simple, as he deems appropriate to insure the continued conservation and preservation of the environmental quality of the lakeshore.


(e) Acquisition of interests in lands designated as category III; limitationsExcept as provided in subsection (f) of this section, the Secretary may, after the publication provided for in subsection (c) of this section, acquire only such interests in lands designated as category III, other than those lands to be acquired in fee simple, as he deems appropriate to protect lands designated for acquisition.


(f) Restrictions on use and development of real property in categories II and III; notification of owners by Secretary of minimum restrictions on use and development for retention of property; compliance with restrictions as barring acquisition by Secretary; applicability to owners not notified by Secretary; acquisition from owners not agreeing to use of property in accordance with notice; acquisition of fee simple titleNot later than one hundred and fifty days after October 21, 1970, the Secretary shall notify owners of real property in categories II and III, other than property designated by him for fee acquisition, of the minimum restrictions on use and development of such property under which such property can be retained in a manner compatible with the purpose for which the lakeshore was established. If the owner of any real property in categories II and III agrees to the use and development of his property in accordance with such restrictions, the Secretary may not acquire, without the consent of such owner, such property or interests therein for so long as the property affected is used in accordance with such restrictions, unless he determines that such property is needed for public use development. The foregoing limitations on acquisition shall also apply to any owners of real property to whom the Secretary did not, within the time set forth, give such a notice, except that if any property owner has not, within ninety days of the notice agreed to use the property in accordance with the notice, then the Secretary may acquire, without limitation, fee or lesser interests in property by any of the methods set forth in section 460x–7 of this title: Provided, That nothing contained in subsections (d) and (e) of this section, and in this subsection, which limits the acquisition of the fee simple title to property within the lakeshore, shall prevent the Secretary from acquiring, without the consent of the owner, the fee simple title whenever in the Secretary’s judgment the estimated cost of acquiring the lesser interest would be a substantial percentage of the estimated cost of acquiring the fee simple title.


(Pub. L. 91–479, § 3, Oct. 21, 1970, 84 Stat. 1075.)
