§ 2623. Adoption of certain standards(a) Adoption of standardsNot later than two years after November 9, 1978, each State regulatory authority (with respect to each electric utility for which it has ratemaking authority), and each nonregulated electric utility, shall provide public notice and conduct a hearing respecting the standards established by subsection (b) of this section and, on the basis of such hearing, shall—(1) adopt the standards established by subsection (b) of this section (other than paragraph (4) thereof) if, and to the extent, such authority or nonregulated electric utility determines that such adoption is appropriate to carry out the purposes of this chapter, is otherwise appropriate, and is consistent with otherwise applicable State law, and

(2) adopt the standard established by subsection (b)(4) of this section if, and to the extent, such authority or nonregulated electric utility determines that such adoption is appropriate and consistent with otherwise applicable State law.


For purposes of any determination under paragraphs (1) or (2) and any review of such determination in any court in accordance with section 2633 of this title, the purposes of this chapter supplement otherwise applicable State law. Nothing in this subsection prohibits any State regulatory authority or nonregulated electric utility from making any determination that it is not appropriate to adopt any such standard, pursuant to its authority under otherwise applicable State law.

(b) EstablishmentThe following Federal standards are hereby established:(1) Master meteringTo the extent determined appropriate under section 2625(d) of this title, master metering of electric service in the case of new buildings shall be prohibited or restricted to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.


(2) Automatic adjustment clausesNo electric utility may increase any rate pursuant to an automatic adjustment clause unless such clause meets the requirements of section 2625(e) of this title.


(3) Information to consumersEach electric utility shall transmit to each of its electric consumers information regarding rate schedules in accordance with the requirements of section 2625(f) of this title.


(4) Procedures for termination of electric serviceNo electric utility may terminate electric service to any electric consumer except pursuant to procedures described in section 2625(g) of this title.


(5) AdvertisingNo electric utility may recover from any person other than the shareholders (or other owners) of such utility any direct or indirect expenditure by such utility for promotional or political advertising as defined in section 2625(h) of this title.



(c) Procedural requirementsEach State regulatory authority (with respect to each electric utility for which it has ratemaking authority) and each nonregulated electric utility, within the two-year period specified in subsection (a) of this section, shall (1) adopt, pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, each of the standards established by subsection (b) of this section, or, (2) with respect to any such standard which is not adopted, such authority or nonregulated electric utility shall state in writing that it has determined not to adopt such standard, together with the reasons for such determination. Such statement of reasons shall be available to the public.


(Pub. L. 95–617, title I, § 113, Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3123.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this title”, meaning title I (§ 101 et seq.) of Pub. L. 95–617, Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3120, which enacted subchapters I to IV of this chapter and section 6808 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, and amended sections 6802 to 6807 of Title 42. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.


