§ 410fff–9. Study of lands within and adjacent to Curecanti National Recreation Area(a) In generalNot later than 3 years after October 21, 1999, the Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, shall conduct a study concerning land protection and open space within and adjacent to the area administered as the Curecanti National Recreation Area.


(b) Purpose of studyThe study required to be completed under subsection (a) of this section shall—(1) assess the natural, cultural, recreational and scenic resource value and character of the land within and surrounding the Curecanti National Recreation Area (including open vistas, wildlife habitat, and other public benefits);

(2) identify practicable alternatives that protect the resource value and character of the land within and surrounding the Curecanti National Recreation Area;

(3) recommend a variety of economically feasible and viable tools to achieve the purposes described in paragraphs (1) and (2); and

(4) estimate the costs of implementing the approaches recommended by the study.


(c) Submission of reportNot later than 3 years from October 21, 1999, the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress that—(1) contains the findings of the study required by subsection (a) of this section;

(2) makes recommendations to Congress with respect to the findings of the study required by subsection (a) of this section; and

(3) makes recommendations to Congress regarding action that may be taken with respect to the land described in the report.


(d) Acquisition of additional land and interests in land(1) In generalPrior to the completion of the study required by subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary may acquire certain private land or interests in land as depicted on the Map entitled “Proposed Additions to the Curecanti National Recreation Area”, dated 01/25/99, totaling approximately 1,065 acres and entitled “Hall and Fitti properties”.


(2) Method of acquisition(A) In generalLand or an interest in land under paragraph (1) may be acquired by—(i) donation;

(ii) purchase with donated or appropriated funds; or

(iii) exchange.


(B) ConsentNo land or interest in land may be acquired without the consent of the owner of the land.


(C) Boundary revisions following acquisitionFollowing the acquisition of land under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—(i) revise the boundary of the Curecanti National Recreation Area to include newly-acquired land; and

(ii) administer newly-acquired land according to applicable laws (including regulations).




(Pub. L. 106–76, § 11, Oct. 21, 1999, 113 Stat. 1131.)
