§ 2107. Financial, technical, and related assistance to States(a) Development of State organizations for protection and management of non-Federal forest lands; scope of assistance; request by officialsTo aid in achieving maximum effectiveness in the programs and activities conducted under this chapter, the Secretary is authorized to provide financial, technical, and related assistance to State foresters or equivalent State officials for the development of stronger and more efficient State organizations that will enable them to fulfill better their responsibilities for the protection and management of non-Federal forest lands. Assistance under this subsection may include, but will not be limited to, assistance in matters related to organization management, program planning and management, budget and fiscal accounting services, personnel training and management, information services, and recordkeeping. Assistance under this subsection may be extended only upon request by State foresters or equivalent State officials.


(b) Assembly, analysis, display, and reporting of State forest resources data, resources planning, etc.; scope of assistance; other statutory provisions unaffectedTo ensure that data regarding forest lands are available for and effectively presented in State and Federal natural resources planning, the Secretary is authorized to provide financial, technical, and related assistance to State foresters or equivalent State officials in the assembly, analysis, display, and reporting of State forest resources data, in the training of State forest resources planners, and in participating in natural resources planning at the State and Federal levels. The Secretary shall restrict assistance under this subsection to the implementation of the forestry aspects of State and Federal natural resources planning conducted under other laws. This subsection shall not be construed, in any way whatsoever, as extending, limiting, amending, repealing, or otherwise affecting any other law or authority.


(c) Technology implementation program; scope of program; availability of funds; use of forest resources planning committeesTo ensure that new technology is introduced, new information is integrated into existing technology, and forest resources research findings are promptly made available to State forestry personnel, private forest landowners and managers, vendors, forest operators, wood proc­essors, public agencies, and individuals, the Secretary is authorized to carry out a program of technology implementation.(1) In implementing this subsection, the Secretary is authorized to work through State foresters or equivalent State officials, and, if the State forester or equivalent State official is unable to deliver these services, the Secretary is authorized to act through appropriate United States Department of Agriculture agencies, subdivisions of States, agencies, institutions, organizations, or individuals to—(A) strengthen technical assistance and service programs of cooperators participating in programs under this chapter by applying research results and conducting pilot projects and field tests of management and utilization practices, equipment, and technologies, related to programs and activities authorized under this chapter;

(B) study the effects of tax laws, methods, and practices on forest management;

(C) develop and maintain technical information systems in support of programs and activities authorized under this chapter;

(D) test, evaluate, and seek registration of chemicals for use in implementing the programs and activities authorized under this chapter;

(E) conduct other activities, including training of State forestry personnel whom the Secretary deems necessary to ensure that the programs and activities authorized under this chapter are responsive to special problems, unique situations, and changing conditions.


(2) The Secretary may make funds available to cooperators under this chapter without regard to the provisions of section 3324(a) and (b) of title 31, which prohibits advances of public money.

(3) The Secretary shall use forest resources planning committees at National and State levels in implementing this subsection.


(d) Authorization of appropriationsThere are hereby authorized to be appropriated annually such sums as may be needed to implement this section.


(Pub. L. 95–313, § 11, formerly § 8, July 1, 1978, 92 Stat. 371; renumbered § 11, Pub. L. 101–624, title XII, § 1215(1), Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3525.)

Codification
In subsec. (c)(2), “section 3324(a) and (b) of title 31” substituted for “section 3648 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 529)” on authority of Pub. L. 97–258, § 4(b), Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1067, the first section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 11 of Pub. L. 95–313 was renumbered section 14 and is classified to section 2110 of this title.


