“SEC. 1406. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS.“(a) In General.—Except to the extent that an activity is undertaken as a subterfuge for activities prohibited by this title, nothing in this title is intended to affect—“(1) any activity that is not directed at a sunken military craft; or

“(2) the traditional high seas freedoms of navigation, including—“(A) the laying of submarine cables and pipelines;

“(B) operation of vessels;

“(C) fishing; or

“(D) other internationally lawful uses of the sea related to such freedoms.



“(b) International Law.—This title and any regulations implementing this title shall be applied in accordance with generally recognized principles of international law and in accordance with the treaties, conventions, and other agreements to which the United States is a party.

“(c) Law of Finds.—The law of finds shall not apply to—“(1) any United States sunken military craft, wherever located; or

“(2) any foreign sunken military craft located in United States waters.


“(d) Law of Salvage.—No salvage rights or awards shall be granted with respect to—“(1) any United States sunken military craft without the express permission of the United States; or

“(2) any foreign sunken military craft located in United States waters without the express permission of the relevant foreign state.


“(e) Law of Capture or Prize.—Nothing in this title is intended to alter the international law of capture or prize with respect to sunken military craft.

“(f) Limitation of Liability.—Nothing in sections 4281 through 4287 and 4289 of the Revised Statutes ([former] 46 U.S.C. App. 181 et seq.) [see chapter 305 of Title 46, Shipping] or section 3 of the Act of February 13, 1893 (chapter 105; 27 Stat. 445; [former] 46 U.S.C. App. 192) [now 46 U.S.C. 30706], shall limit the liability of any person under this section.

“(g) Authorities of the Commandant of the Coast Guard.—Nothing in this title is intended to preclude or limit the application of any other law enforcement authorities of the Commandant of the Coast Guard.

“(h) Prior Delegations, Authorizations, and Related Regulations.—Nothing in this title shall invalidate any prior delegation, authorization, or related regulation that is consistent with this title.

“(i) Criminal Law.—Nothing in this title is intended to prevent the United States from pursuing criminal sanctions for plundering of wrecks, larceny of Government property, or violation of any applicable criminal law.

