§ 460rrr–4. Management plan(a) In generalNot later than 4 years after October 12, 2006, the Secretary and the Commission, in coordination with appropriate agencies in the State of Colorado, political subdivisions of the State, and private landowners in the Natural Area, shall prepare management plans for the Natural Area as provided in subsection (b).


(b) Duties of Secretary and Commission(1) SecretaryThe Secretary shall prepare a management plan relating to the management of Federal land in the Natural Area.


(2) Commission(A) In generalThe Commission shall prepare a management plan relating to the management of the non-Federal land in the Natural Area.


(B) Approval or disapproval(i) In generalThe Commission shall submit to the Secretary the management plan prepared under subparagraph (A) for approval or disapproval.


(ii) Action following disapprovalIf the Secretary disapproves the management plan submitted under clause (i), the Secretary shall—(I) notify the Commission of the reasons for the disapproval; and

(II) allow the Commission to submit to the Secretary revisions to the management plan submitted under clause (i).




(3) CooperationThe Secretary and the Commission shall cooperate to ensure that the management plans relating to the management of Federal land and non-Federal land are consistent.



(c) RequirementsThe management plans shall—(1) take into consideration Federal, State, and local plans in existence on October 12, 2006, to present a unified preservation, restoration, and conservation plan for the Natural Area;

(2) with respect to Federal land in the Natural Area—(A) be developed in accordance with section 1712 of title 43;

(B) be consistent, to the maximum extent practicable, with the management plans adopted by the Director of the Bureau of Land Management for land adjacent to the Natural Area; and

(C) be considered to be an amendment to the San Luis Resource Management Plan of the Bureau of Land Management; and


(3) include—(A) an inventory of the resources contained in the Natural Area (including a list of property in the Natural Area that should be preserved, restored, managed, developed, maintained, or acquired to further the purposes of the Natural Area); and

(B) a recommendation of policies for resource management, including the use of intergovernmental cooperative agreements, that—(i) protect the resources of the Natural Area; and

(ii) provide for solitude, quiet use, and pristine natural values of the Natural Area.




(d) PublicationThe Secretary shall publish notice of the management plans in the Federal Register.


(Pub. L. 109–337, § 6, Oct. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 1779.)
