“SEC. 1631. MEDICAL CARE AND OTHER BENEFITS FOR MEMBERS AND FORMER MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WITH SEVERE INJURIES OR ILLNESSES.“(a) Medical and Dental Care for Former Members.—“(1) In general.—Effective as of the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008] and subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary may authorize that any former member of the Armed Forces with a serious injury or illness may receive the same medical and dental care as a member of the Armed Forces on active duty for medical and dental care not reasonably available to such former member in the Department of Veterans Affairs.

“(2) Sunset.—The Secretary of Defense may not provide medical or dental care to a former member of the Armed Forces under this subsection after December 31, 2012, if the Secretary has not provided medical or dental care to the former member under this subsection before that date.


“(b) Rehabilitation and Vocational Benefits.—“(1) In general.—Effective as of the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 28, 2008], a member of the Armed Forces with a severe injury or illness is entitled to such benefits (including rehabilitation and vocational benefits, but not including compensation) from the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to facilitate the recovery and rehabilitation of such member as the Secretary otherwise provides to veterans of the Armed Forces receiving medical care in medical facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs facilities in order to facilitate the recovery and rehabilitation of such members.

“(2) Sunset.—The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not provide benefits to a member of the Armed Forces under this subsection after December 31, 2014, if the Secretary has not provided benefits to the member under this subsection before that date.


“(c) Rehabilitative Equipment for Members of the Armed Forces.—“(1) In general.—Subject to the availability of appropriations for such purpose, the Secretary of Defense may provide an active duty member of the Armed Forces with a severe injury or illness with rehabilitative equipment, including recreational sports equipment that provide an adaption or accommodation for the member, regardless of whether such equipment is intentionally designed to be adaptive equipment.

“(2) Consultation.—In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary of Defense shall consult with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs regarding similar programs carried out by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.


