§ 5202. National Action Plan on Advanced Superconductivity Research and Development(a) Establishment(1) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall establish a 5-year National Action Plan on Advanced Superconductivity Research and Development (hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the “Superconductivity Action Plan”).

(2) The Office of Science and Technology Policy shall coordinate the development of the Superconductivity Action Plan and any recommendations required by this chapter with the National Critical Materials Council and the National Commission on Superconductivity.


(b) Content and scopeThe Superconductivity Action Plan shall include—(1) goals and priorities for advanced superconductivity research and development to be carried out by individual departments and agencies and organizational elements therein;

(2) the assignment of responsibility for the conduct of advanced superconductivity research and development among the departments, agencies, and organization elements therein;

(3) recommendation of proposed funding levels for activities relating to superconductivity of the 5 years following November 19, 1988, for each of the participating departments, agencies, and organizational elements therein; and

(4) proposals for the participation by industry and academia in the planning and implementation of the Superconductivity Action Plan.


(c) Action Plan reportThe Office of Science and Technology Policy, in conjunction with the National Critical Materials Council, shall submit a report detailing the Superconductivity Action Plan to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, and to the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources, and Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, within 9 months after November 19, 1988.


(d) Update reportsThe Office of Science and Technology Policy, with the assistance of the National Critical Materials Council as specified in the National Critical Materials Act of 1984 (30 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), shall prepare an annual report setting forth and evaluating the progress of the Superconductivity Action Plan. This report shall include a description of the amount of funds expended in the previous year by all Federal departments and agencies involved with superconductivity. This report shall be submitted with the President’s annual budget request to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, and to the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources, and Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.


(Pub. L. 100–697, § 3, Nov. 19, 1988, 102 Stat. 4614.)


References in TextThe National Critical Materials Act of 1984, referred to in subsec. (d), is title II of Pub. L. 98–373, July 31, 1984, 98 Stat. 1248, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 30 (§ 1801 et seq.) of Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1801 of Title 30 and Tables.


