§ 459s. Lands for certain projects added to certain projects
After June 6, 1942, the lands acquired for the Acadia, French Creek, Shenandoah, and White Sands recreational demonstration projects shall be added to and become a part of Acadia National Park, Hopewell Village National Historic Site, Shenandoah National Park, and White Sands National Monument, in the order named above, subject to all laws, rules, and regulations applicable to the respective areas to which such recreational demonstration projects are added.
(June 6, 1942, ch. 380, § 2, 56 Stat. 327.)

Codification
Proviso directing the Secretary of the Interior to file with the National Archives within six months after June 6, 1942, a map of each recreational demonstration project enumerated in the section has been omitted as executed.

Hopewell Village Boundary RevisionAct July 24, 1946, ch. 604, 60 Stat. 655, provided: “That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to withdraw from the Hopewell Village National Historic Site, Pennsylvania, all or any part of the lands added to the Hopewell Village National Historic Site by the act approved June 6, 1942, entitled ‘An Act to authorize the disposition of recreational demonstration projects, and for other purposes [sections 459r to 459t of this title]’, which in his opinion are not required for historic-site purposes. Any lands so withdrawn shall revert to the status of a recreational demonstration area.”


Silver Creek Recreational Demonstration ProjectAct June 9, 1947, ch. 100, 61 Stat. 129, provided: 
“That for the purpose of consolidating Federal holdings of lands acquired for the Silver Creek recreational demonstration project, in the State of Oregon, the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to exchange any such lands for other lands of approximately equal value when in his opinion such action is in the interest of the United States, the title to any lands acquired hereunder to be satisfactory to the Attorney General. Upon the vesting of title thereto in the United States, any lands acquired pursuant to this authorization shall become a part of the Silver Creek recreational demonstration project, and shall be subject to the laws applicable thereto.
“Sec. 2. Upon the conveyance of the Silver Creek recreational demonstration project to the State of Oregon, or political subdivision thereof, pursuant to the Act of June 6, 1942 (56 Stat. 326) [sections 459r to 459t of this title], the Secretary of the Interior may authorize the grantee to exchange or otherwise dispose of any lands so conveyed in order to acquire other lands of approximately equal value for the purpose of consolidating the holdings of the grantee, the title to lands so acquired to be satisfactory to the Attorney General. For the aforesaid purpose the Secretary is authorized to execute a release, as to the particular lands involved, of any condition providing for a reversion of title to the United States, that may be contained in the conveyance by the United States to said grantee. No such release shall be executed, however, unless the grantee shall agree, in form satisfactory to the Secretary, that the lands to be acquired by it shall be subject to the conditions contained in the original conveyance from the United States, except that, in lieu of a provision for reversion, the grantee shall agree to convey said lands to the United States upon a finding by the Secretary in accordance with the procedure provided in said Act of June 6, 1942, that the grantee has not complied with such conditions during a period of more than three years. Lands so conveyed to the United States shall be subject to administration or disposition in like manner as recreational demonstration project lands that revert to the United States under the terms of the aforesaid Act.”
