§ 460zzz–1. Dominguez-Escalante National Conservation Area(a) Establishment(1) In generalThere is established the Dominguez-Escalante National Conservation Area in the State.


(2) Area includedThe Conservation Area shall consist of approximately 209,610 acres of public land, as generally depicted on the Map.



(b) PurposesThe purposes of the Conservation Area are to conserve and protect for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations—(1) the unique and important resources and values of the land, including the geological, cultural, archaeological, paleontological, natural, scientific, recreational, wilderness, wildlife, riparian, historical, educational, and scenic resources of the public land; and

(2) the water resources of area streams, based on seasonally available flows, that are necessary to support aquatic, riparian, and terrestrial species and communities.


(c) Management(1) In generalThe Secretary shall manage the Conservation Area—(A) as a component of the National Landscape Conservation System;

(B) in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances the resources and values of the Conservation Area described in subsection (b); and

(C) in accordance with—(i) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);

(ii) this subchapter; and

(iii) any other applicable laws.



(2) Uses(A) In generalThe Secretary shall allow only such uses of the Conservation Area as the Secretary determines would further the purposes for which the Conservation Area is established.


(B) Use of motorized vehicles(i) In generalExcept as provided in clauses (ii) and (iii), use of motorized vehicles in the Conservation Area shall be allowed—(I) before the effective date of the management plan, only on roads and trails designated for use of motor vehicles in the management plan that applies on March 30, 2009, to the public land in the Conservation Area; and

(II) after the effective date of the management plan, only on roads and trails designated in the management plan for the use of motor vehicles.


(ii) Administrative and emergency response useClause (i) shall not limit the use of motor vehicles in the Conservation Area for administrative purposes or to respond to an emergency.


(iii) LimitationThis subparagraph shall not apply to the Wilderness.





(Pub. L. 111–11, title II, § 2402, Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1102.)


References in TextThe Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in subsec. (c)(1)(C)(i), is Pub. L. 94–579, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2743, which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of Title 43 and Tables.


