§ 5223. Minimization of long-term costs and maximization of benefits for taxpayers(a) Long-term costs and benefits(1) Minimizing negative impactThe Secretary shall use the authority under this chapter in a manner that will minimize any potential long-term negative impact on the taxpayer, taking into account the direct outlays, potential long-term returns on assets purchased, and the overall economic benefits of the program, including economic benefits due to improvements in economic activity and the availability of credit, the impact on the savings and pensions of individuals, and reductions in losses to the Federal Government.


(2) AuthorityIn carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—(A) hold the assets to maturity or for resale for and until such time as the Secretary determines that the market is optimal for selling such assets, in order to maximize the value for taxpayers; and

(B) sell such assets at a price that the Secretary determines, based on available financial analysis, will maximize return on investment for the Federal Government.


(3) Private sector participationThe Secretary shall encourage the private sector to participate in purchases of troubled assets, and to invest in financial institutions, consistent with the provisions of this section.



(b) Use of market mechanismsIn making purchases under this chapter, the Secretary shall—(1) make such purchases at the lowest price that the Secretary determines to be consistent with the purposes of this chapter; and

(2) maximize the efficiency of the use of taxpayer resources by using market mechanisms, including auctions or reverse auctions, where appropriate.


(c) Direct purchasesIf the Secretary determines that use of a market mechanism under subsection (b) is not feasible or appropriate, and the purposes of the chapter are best met through direct purchases from an individual financial institution, the Secretary shall pursue additional measures to ensure that prices paid for assets are reasonable and reflect the underlying value of the asset.


(d) Conditions on purchase authority for warrants and debt instruments(1) In generalThe Secretary may not purchase, or make any commitment to purchase, any troubled asset under the authority of this chapter, unless the Secretary receives from the financial institution from which such assets are to be purchased—(A) in the case of a financial institution, the securities of which are traded on a national securities exchange, a warrant giving the right to the Secretary to receive nonvoting common stock or preferred stock in such financial institution, or voting stock with respect to which,11 So in original. The comma probably should not appear. the Secretary agrees not to exercise voting power, as the Secretary determines appropriate; or

(B) in the case of any financial institution other than one described in subparagraph (A), a warrant for common or preferred stock, or a senior debt instrument from such financial institution, as described in paragraph (2)(C).


(2) Terms and conditionsThe terms and conditions of any warrant or senior debt instrument required under paragraph (1) shall meet the following requirements:(A) PurposesSuch terms and conditions shall, at a minimum, be designed—(i) to provide for reasonable participation by the Secretary, for the benefit of taxpayers, in equity appreciation in the case of a warrant or other equity security, or a reasonable interest rate premium, in the case of a debt instrument; and

(ii) to provide additional protection for the taxpayer against losses from sale of assets by the Secretary under this chapter and the administrative expenses of the TARP.


(B) Authority to sell, exercise, or surrenderThe Secretary may sell, exercise, or surrender a warrant or any senior debt instrument received under this subsection, based on the conditions established under subparagraph (A).


(C) ConversionThe warrant shall provide that if, after the warrant is received by the Secretary under this subsection, the financial institution that issued the warrant is no longer listed or traded on a national securities exchange or securities association, as described in paragraph (1)(A), such warrants shall convert to senior debt, or contain appropriate protections for the Secretary to ensure that the Treasury is appropriately compensated for the value of the warrant, in an amount determined by the Secretary.


(D) ProtectionsAny warrant representing securities to be received by the Secretary under this subsection shall contain anti-dilution provisions of the type employed in capital market transactions, as determined by the Secretary. Such provisions shall protect the value of the securities from market transactions such as stock splits, stock distributions, dividends, and other distributions, mergers, and other forms of reorganization or recapitalization.


(E) Exercise priceThe exercise price for any warrant issued pursuant to this subsection shall be set by the Secretary, in the interest of the taxpayers.


(F) SufficiencyThe financial institution shall guarantee to the Secretary that it has authorized shares of nonvoting stock available to fulfill its obligations under this subsection. Should the financial institution not have sufficient authorized shares, including preferred shares that may carry dividend rights equal to a multiple number of common shares, the Secretary may, to the extent necessary, accept a senior debt note in an amount, and on such terms as will compensate the Secretary with equivalent value, in the event that a sufficient shareholder vote to authorize the necessary additional shares cannot be obtained.



(3) Exceptions(A) De minimisThe Secretary shall establish de minimis exceptions to the requirements of this subsection, based on the size of the cumulative transactions of troubled assets purchased from any one financial institution for the duration of the program, at not more than $100,000,000.


(B) Other exceptionsThe Secretary shall establish an exception to the requirements of this subsection and appropriate alternative requirements for any participating financial institution that is legally prohibited from issuing securities and debt instruments, so as not to allow circumvention of the requirements of this section.




(Pub. L. 110–343, div. A, title I, § 113, Oct. 3, 2008, 122 Stat. 3777.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in text, was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this division”, meaning div. A of Pub. L. 110–343, Oct. 3, 2008, 122 Stat. 3765, known as the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. For complete classification of division A to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5201 of this title and Tables.


