§ 4102. Arctic Research Commission(a) EstablishmentThe President shall establish an Arctic Research Commission (hereafter referred to as the “Commission”).


(b) Membership(1) The Commission shall be composed of seven members appointed by the President, with the Director of the National Science Foundation serving as a nonvoting, ex officio member. The members appointed by the President shall include—(A) four members appointed from among individuals from academic or other research institutions with expertise in areas of research relating to the Arctic, including the physical, biological, health, environmental, social, and behavioral sciences;

(B) one member appointed from among indigenous residents of the Arctic who are representative of the needs and interests of Arctic residents and who live in areas directly affected by Arctic resource development; and

(C) two members appointed from among individuals familiar with the Arctic and representative of the needs and interests of private industry undertaking resource development in the Arctic.


(2) The President shall designate one of the appointed members of the Commission to be chairperson of the Commission.


(c) Terms of office; vacancies; hold-over status(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the term of office of each member of the Commission appointed under subsection (b)(1) of this section shall be four years.

(2) Of the members of the Commission originally appointed under subsection (b)(1) of this section—(A) one shall be appointed for a term of two years;

(B) two shall be appointed for a term of three years; and

(C) two shall be appointed for a term of four years.


(3) Any vacancy occurring in the membership of the Commission shall be filled, after notice of the vacancy is published in the Federal Register, in the manner provided by the preceding provisions of this section, for the remainder of the unexpired term.

(4) A member may serve after the expiration of the member’s term of office until the President appoints a successor.

(5) A member may serve consecutive terms beyond the member’s original appointment.


(d) Compensation and travel expenses; Federal employee status; meetings; observer-designees(1) Members of the Commission may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5. A member of the Commission not presently employed for compensation shall be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the rate for GS–18 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5 for each day the member is engaged in the actual performance of his duties as a member of the Commission, not to exceed 90 days of service each year. Except for the purposes of chapter 81 of title 5 (relating to compensation for work injuries) and chapter 171 of title 28 (relating to tort claims), a member of the Commission shall not be considered an employee of the United States for any purpose.

(2) The Commission shall meet at the call of its Chairman or a majority of its members.

(3) Each Federal agency referred to in section 4106(b) of this title may designate a representative to participate as an observer with the Commission. These representatives shall report to and advise the Commission on the activities relating to Arctic research of their agencies.

(4) The Commission shall conduct at least one public meeting in the State of Alaska annually.


(Pub. L. 98–373, title I, § 103, July 31, 1984, 98 Stat. 1243; Pub. L. 101–609, §§ 2, 3, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3125.)

Amendments1990—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 101–609, § 2, in introductory provisions, substituted “seven” for “five”, in subpar. (A), substituted “four” for “three”, and in subpar. (C), substituted “two members” for “one member”.
Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 101–609, § 3, substituted “GS–18” for “GS–16”.

References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay RatesReferences in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of Pub. L. 101–509, set out in a note under section 5376 of Title 5.


