§ 5721. Yukon River Salmon Panel(a) Establishment(1) In generalThere shall be a Yukon River Salmon Panel (in this subchapter referred to as the “Panel”).


(2) FunctionsThe Panel shall—(A) advise the Secretary of State regarding the negotiation of any international agreement with Canada relating to management of salmon stocks originating from the Yukon River in Canada;

(B) advise the Secretary of the Interior regarding restoration and enhancement of such salmon stocks; and

(C) perform other functions relating to conservation and management of such salmon stocks as authorized by this subchapter or any other title.11 See References in Text note below.


(3) Designation as United States representatives on bilateral bodyThe Secretary of State may designate the members of the Panel to be the United States representatives on any successor to the panel established by the interim agreement for the conservation of salmon stocks originating from the Yukon River in Canada agreed to through an exchange of notes between the Government of the United States and the Government of Canada on February 3, 1995, if authorized by any agreement establishing such successor.



(b) Membership(1) In generalThe Panel shall be comprised of six members, as follows:(A) One member who is an official of the United States Government with expertise in salmon conservation and management, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of State.

(B) One member who is an official of the State of Alaska with expertise in salmon conservation and management, who shall be appointed by the Governor of Alaska.

(C) Four members who are knowledgeable and experienced with regard to the salmon fisheries on the Yukon River, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of State in accordance with paragraph (2).


(2) Appointees from Alaska(A) The Secretary of State shall appoint the members under paragraph (1)(C) from a list of at least three individuals nominated for each position by the Governor of Alaska.

(B) In making the nominations, the Governor of Alaska may consider suggestions for nominations provided by organizations with expertise in Yukon River salmon fisheries.

(C) The Governor of Alaska may make appropriate nominations to allow for appointment of, and the Secretary of State shall appoint, under paragraph (1)(C)—(i) at least one member who is qualified to represent the interests of Lower Yukon River fishing districts; and

(ii) at least one member who is qualified to represent the interests of Upper Yukon River fishing districts.


(D) At least one of the members appointed under paragraph (1)(C) shall be an Alaska Native.


(3) Alternates(A) The Secretary of State may designate an alternate Panel member for each Panel member the Secretary appoints under paragraphs (1)(A) and (C), who meets the same qualifications, to serve in the absence of the Panel member.

(B) The Governor of the State of Alaska may designate an alternative Panel member for the Panel member appointed under subsection (b)(1)(B) of this section, who meets the same qualifications, to serve in the absence of that Panel member.



(c) Term lengthPanel members and alternate Panel members shall serve 4-year terms. Any individual appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of any term shall be appointed for the remainder of that term.


(d) ReappointmentPanel members and alternate Panel members shall be eligible for reappointment.


(e) DecisionsDecisions of the Panel shall be made by the consensus of the Panel members appointed under subparagraphs (B) and (C) of subsection (b)(1) of this section.


(f) ConsultationIn carrying out their functions, Panel members may consult with such other interested parties as they consider appropriate.


(Pub. L. 106–450, title II, § 202, Nov. 7, 2000, 114 Stat. 1941.)


References in TextThis subchapter or any other title, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(C), was in the original “this or any other title”. The reference to “any other title” probably was intended to mean a reference to any other act.

Short TitleFor short title of this subchapter as the “Yukon River Salmon Act of 2000”, see section 201 of Pub. L. 106–450, set out as a note under section 5701 of this title.


