§ 5564. Litigation authority(a) In generalIf any person violates a Federal consumer financial law, the Bureau may, subject to sections 5514, 5515, and 5516 of this title, commence a civil action against such person to impose a civil penalty or to seek all appropriate legal and equitable relief including a permanent or temporary injunction as permitted by law.


(b) RepresentationThe Bureau may act in its own name and through its own attorneys in enforcing any provision of this title,11 See References in Text note below. rules thereunder, or any other law or regulation, or in any action, suit, or proceeding to which the Bureau is a party.


(c) Compromise of actionsThe Bureau may compromise or settle any action if such compromise is approved by the court.


(d) Notice to the Attorney General(1) In generalWhen commencing a civil action under Federal consumer financial law, or any rule thereunder, the Bureau shall notify the Attorney General and, with respect to a civil action against an insured depository institution or insured credit union, the appropriate prudential regulator.


(2) Notice and coordination(A) Notice of other actionsIn addition to any notice required under paragraph (1), the Bureau shall notify the Attorney General concerning any action, suit, or proceeding to which the Bureau is a party, except an action, suit, or proceeding that involves the offering or provision of consumer financial products or services.


(B) CoordinationIn order to avoid conflicts and promote consistency regarding litigation of matters under Federal law, the Attorney General and the Bureau shall consult regarding the coordination of investigations and proceedings, including by negotiating an agreement for coordination by not later than 180 days after the designated transfer date. The agreement under this subparagraph shall include provisions to ensure that parallel investigations and proceedings involving the Federal consumer financial laws are conducted in a manner that avoids conflicts and does not impede the ability of the Attorney General to prosecute violations of Federal criminal laws.


(C) Rule of constructionNothing in this paragraph shall be construed to limit the authority of the Bureau under this title,1 including the authority to interpret Federal consumer financial law.




(e) Appearance before the Supreme CourtThe Bureau may represent itself in its own name before the Supreme Court of the United States, provided that the Bureau makes a written request to the Attorney General within the 10-day period which begins on the date of entry of the judgment which would permit any party to file a petition for writ of certiorari, and the Attorney General concurs with such request or fails to take action within 60 days of the request of the Bureau.


(f) ForumAny civil action brought under this title 1 may be brought in a United States district court or in any court of competent jurisdiction of a state in a district in which the defendant is located or resides or is doing business, and such court shall have jurisdiction to enjoin such person and to require compliance with any Federal consumer financial law.


(g) Time for bringing action(1) In generalExcept as otherwise permitted by law or equity, no action may be brought under this title 1 more than 3 years after the date of discovery of the violation to which an action relates.


(2) Limitations under other Federal laws(A) In generalAn action arising under this title 1 does not include claims arising solely under enumerated consumer laws.


(B) Bureau authorityIn any action arising solely under an enumerated consumer law, the Bureau may commence, defend, or intervene in the action in accordance with the requirements of that provision of law, as applicable.


(C) Transferred authorityIn any action arising solely under laws for which authorities were transferred under subtitles F and H, the Bureau may commence, defend, or intervene in the action in accordance with the requirements of that provision of law, as applicable.




(Pub. L. 111–203, title X, § 1054, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2028.)


References in TextThis title, referred to in subsecs. (b), (d)(2)(C), (f), and (g)(1), (2)(A), is title X of Pub. L. 111–203, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1955, known as the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, which enacted this subchapter and enacted, amended, and repealed numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of title X to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5301 of this title and Tables.
Subtitle F, referred to in subsec. (g)(2)(C), is subtitle F (§§ 1061–1067) of title X of Pub. L. 111–203, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2035, which is classified generally to part F (§ 5581 et seq.) of this subchapter. For complete classification of subtitle F to the Code, see Tables.
Subtitle H, referred to in subsec. (g)(2)(C), is subtitle H (§§ 1081–1100H) of title X of Pub. L. 111–203, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 2080. For complete classification of subtitle H to the Code, see Tables.

Effective DateSection effective on the designated transfer date, see section 1058 of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as a note under section 5561 of this title.


