§ 57b–4. Good faith reliance on actions of Board of Governors(a) “Board of Governors” definedFor purposes of this section, the term “Board of Governors’ means the Board of Governors” of the Federal Reserve System.


(b) Use as defenseNotwithstanding any other provision of law, if—(1) any person, partnership, or corporation engages in any conduct or practice which allegedly constitutes a violation of any Federal law with respect to which the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has rulemaking authority; and

(2) such person, partnership, or corporation engaged in such conduct or practice in good faith reliance upon, and in conformity with, any rule, regulation, statement of interpretation, or statement of approval prescribed or issued by the Board of Governors under such Federal law;


then such good faith reliance shall constitute a defense in any administrative or judicial proceeding commenced against such person, partnership, or corporation by the Commission under this subchapter or in any administrative or judicial proceeding commenced against such person, partnership, or corporation by the Attorney General of the United States, upon request made by the Commission, under any provision of law.

(c) Applicability of subsection (b)The provisions of subsection (b) of this section shall apply regardless of whether any rule, regulation, statement of interpretation, or statement of approval prescribed or issued by the Board of Governors is amended, rescinded, or held to be invalid by judicial authority or any other authority after a person, partnership, or corporation has engaged in any conduct or practice in good faith reliance upon, and in conformity with, such rule, regulation, statement of interpretation, or statement of approval.


(d) Request for issuance of statement or interpretation concerning conduct or practiceIf, in any case in which—(1) the Board of Governors has rulemaking authority with respect to any Federal law; and

(2) the Commission is authorized to enforce the requirements of such Federal law;


any person, partnership, or corporation submits a request to the Board of Governors for the issuance of any statement of interpretation or statement of approval relating to any conduct or practice of such person, partnership, or corporation which may be subject to the requirements of such Federal law, then the Board of Governors shall dispose of such request as soon as practicable after the receipt of such.

(Sept. 26, 1914, ch. 311, § 23, as added Pub. L. 96–252, § 16, May 28, 1980, 94 Stat. 390.)

Effective DateSection effective May 28, 1980, see section 23 of Pub. L. 96–252, set out as an Effective Date of 1980 Amendment note under section 45 of this title.


