§ 916d. Licenses(a) IssuanceNo person shall engage in whaling without first having obtained an appropriate license or scientific permit. Such licenses shall be issued by the Secretary of Commerce or such officer of the Department of Commerce as may be designated by him: Provided, That the Secretary, in his discretion and by appropriate regulation, may waive the payment of any license fee or the requirement that a license first be obtained, in connection with the salvage of any “Dauhval” or unclaimed dead whale found floating or stranded.


(b) Licenses and fees requiredThe following licenses and fees shall be required for each calendar year or any fraction thereof and shall be nontransferable except under such conditions as may be prescribed by the Secretary:(1) Land-station license for primary processing of whales, $250.

(2) Land-station license for secondary processing of parts of whales delivered to it by a land station licensed as a primary processor, $100.

(3) Factory-ship license for primary processing of whales delivered by whale catchers, $250.

(4) License for any vessel used exclusively for transporting whale products from a factory ship to a port during the whaling season, $100.

(5) Whale-catcher license, $100.


(c) Disposition of feesAll moneys derived from the issuance of whaling licenses shall be covered into the Treasury of the United States, and no license fee shall be refunded by reason of the failure of any person to whom a license has been issued to utilize the facility in whaling for which such license was issued.


(d) Application; conditions precedentAny person, in making application for a license to operate a whale catcher, must furnish evidence or affidavit satisfactory to the Secretary of Commerce that, in addition to conforming to other applicable laws and regulations, (1) the whale catcher is adequately equipped and competently manned to engage in whaling in accordance with the provisions of the convention, the regulations of the Commission, and the regulations of the Secretary of Commerce; (2) gunners and crews will be compensated on some basis that does not depend primarily on the number of whales taken; and (3) no bonus or other partial remuneration with relation to the number of whales taken shall be paid to gunners and crews in respect of the taking of any whales, the taking of which is prohibited.


(e) Additional conditionsAny person, in making application for a license to operate a land station or a factory ship must furnish evidence or affidavits to the satisfaction of the Secretary of Commerce that, in addition to conforming to other applicable laws and regulations, such land station or factory ship is adequately equipped to comply with provisions of the convention, of the regulations of the Commission, and of the regulations of the Secretary of Commerce with respect to the processing of whales or the manufacture of whale products.


(Aug. 9, 1950, ch. 653, § 6, 64 Stat. 422; 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 4, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, 84 Stat. 2090.)


Transfer of Functions
Transfer of functions to Secretary of Commerce from Secretary of the Interior by Reorg. Plan No. 4 of 1970, see note set out under section 916 of this title.

Refund of License Fees Paid Under Subchapter I of This ChapterAct Aug. 9, 1950, ch. 653, § 16, 64 Stat. 425, provided in part that the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to refund any part of a license fee paid under former section 908 of this title that is in excess of the license fee required under this section.


