§ 410nn–3. Advisory Commission(a) EstablishmentThere is hereby established the Advisory Commission of the San Francisco Maritime National Historical Park (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Commission”). The Commission shall be composed of 12 members appointed by the Secretary as follows:(1) 3 members appointed for terms of 4 years from recommendations submitted by the National Maritime Museum Association.

(2) 2 members appointed for terms of 4 years from recommendations submitted by the Governor of the State of California, at least one of whom shall have professional expertise in maritime historic preservation.

(3) 4 members appointed for terms of 5 years from recommendations submitted by the Mayor of San Francisco with special consideration given to individuals with knowledge of museum and/or maritime issues and who represent the local fishing industry, recreational users, the business community, and neighborhood groups.

(4) 1 member appointed for a term of 5 years from recommendations from the Secretary of Commerce, who shall have professional expertise in the maritime industry.

(5) 2 members appointed for terms of 5 years, who shall have professional expertise in maritime history or historic preservation.


Any member of the Commission appointed for a definite term may serve after the expiration of his term until his successor is appointed. A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.

(b) CompensationMembers of the Commission shall serve without pay. While away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission, members of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5.


(c) OfficersThe Chair and other officers of the Commission shall be elected by a majority of the members of the Commission to serve for terms established by the Commission.


(d) MeetingsThe Commission shall meet at the call of the Chair or a majority of its members, but not less than twice annually. Seven members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. Consistent with the public meeting requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the Commission shall, from time to time, meet with persons concerned with maritime preservation.


(e) Bylaws and charterThe Commission may make such bylaws, rules, and regulations as it considers necessary to carry out its functions under this subchapter. The provisions of section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Act of October 6, 1972; 86 Stat. 776), are hereby waived with respect to this Commission.


(f) FunctionsThe Commission shall advise the Secretary on the management and development of the park. The Secretary, or his designee, shall from time to time, but at least semiannually, meet and consult with the Commission on matters relating to the management and development of the park.


(g) TerminationThe Commission shall cease to exist 10 years after the date on which the first meeting of the Commission is held.


(Pub. L. 100–348, § 5, June 27, 1988, 102 Stat. 656.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (e), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 100–348, June 27, 1988, 102 Stat. 654, known as the San Francisco Maritime National Historical Park Act of 1988, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 410nn of this title and Tables.
The Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsecs. (d) and (e), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


