§ 69h. Guaranty(a) Avoidance of liability; requirementsNo person shall be guilty under section 69a of this title if he establishes a guaranty received in good faith signed by and containing the name and address of the person residing in the United States by whom the fur product or fur guaranteed was manufactured or from whom it was received, that said fur product is not misbranded or that said fur product or fur is not falsely advertised or invoiced under the provisions of this subchapter. Such guaranty shall be either (1) a separate guaranty specifically designating the fur product or fur guaranteed, in which case it may be on the invoice or other paper relating to such fur product or fur; or (2) a continuing guaranty filed with the Commission applicable to any fur product or fur handled by a guarantor, in such form as the Commission by rules and regulations may prescribe.


(b) Furnishing false guarantyIt shall be unlawful for any person to furnish, with respect to any fur product or fur, a false guaranty (except a person relying upon a guaranty to the same effect received in good faith signed by and containing the name and address of the person residing in the United States by whom the fur product or fur guaranteed was manufactured or from whom it was received) with reason to believe the fur product or fur falsely guaranteed may be introduced, sold, transported, or distributed in commerce, and any person who violates the provisions of this subsection is guilty of an unfair method of competition, and an unfair or deceptive act or practice, in commerce within the meaning of the Federal Trade Commission Act [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.].


(Aug. 8, 1951, ch. 298, § 10, 65 Stat. 181.)


References in TextThe Federal Trade Commission Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is defined in section 69 of this title.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions of Federal Trade Commission, with certain exceptions, to Chairman of such Commission, see Reorg. Plan No. 8 of 1950, § 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3175, 64 Stat. 1264, set out under section 41 of this title.


