§ 460p–2. Acquisition of lands, etc.(a) Authority of Secretary; manner and place; boundaries of Monongahela National Forest; concurrence of State ownerThe Secretary shall acquire by purchase with donated or appropriated funds, by gift, exchange, condemnation, transfer from any Federal agency, or otherwise, such lands, waters, or interests therein within the boundaries of the recreation area as he determines to be needed or desirable for the purposes of this subchapter. For the purposes of section 460l–9 of this title, the boundaries of the Monongahela National Forest, as designated by the Secretary pursuant to section 460p–1 of this title, shall be treated as if they were the boundaries of that forest on January 1, 1965. Lands, waters, or interests therein owned by the State of West Virginia or any political subdivision of that State may be acquired only with the concurrence of such owner.


(b) Transfer from Federal agency to administrative jurisdiction of SecretaryNotwithstanding any other provision of law, any Federal property located within the boundaries of the recreation area may, with the concurrence of the agency having custody thereof, be transferred without consideration to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary for use by him in implementing the purposes of this subchapter.


(c) Exchange of propertyIn exercising his authority to acquire lands by exchange the Secretary may accept title to non-Federal property within the recreation area and convey to the grantor of such property any federally owned property in the State of West Virginia under his jurisdiction.


(d) State expenditures for public schools, public roads, or other public purposesThe portion of the moneys paid to the State of West Virginia under the provisions of section 500 of this title for expenditure for the benefit of Pendleton and Grant Counties, West Virginia, may be expended as the State legislature may prescribe for the benefit of such counties for public schools, public roads, or other public purposes.


(Pub. L. 89–207, § 3, Sept. 28, 1965, 79 Stat. 843.)
