§ 460ii–5. Chattahoochee River National Recreation Area Advisory Commission(a) Establishment; duties; membership: voting members and Park Superintendent as nonvoting member; ChairmanThere is hereby established the Chattahoochee River National Recreation Area Advisory Commission (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Advisory Commission”) to advise the Secretary regarding the management and operation of the area, protection of resources with 11 So in original. Probably should be “within”. the recreation area, and the priority of lands to be acquired within the recreation area. The Advisory Commission shall be composed of the following thirteen voting members appointed by the Secretary:(1) four members appointed from among individuals recommended by local governments—(A) one of whom shall be recommended by the Board of County Commissioners of Forsyth County;

(B) one of whom shall be recommended by the Board of County Commissioners of Fulton County;

(C) one of whom shall be recommended by the Board of County Commissioners of Cobb County; and

(D) one of whom shall be recommended by the Board of County Commissioners of Gwinnett County;


(2) one member appointed from among individuals recommended by the Governor of Georgia;

(3) one member appointed from among individuals recommended by the Atlanta Regional Commission;

(4) four members appointed from among individuals recommended by a coalition of citizens public interest groups, recreational users, and environmental organizations concerned with the protection and preservation of the Chattahoochee River;

(5) one member appointed from among individuals recommended by the Business Council of Georgia or by a local chamber of commerce in the vicinity of the recreation area; and

(6) two members who represent the general public, at least one of whom shall be a resident of one of the counties referred to in paragraph (1).


In addition, the Park Superintendent for the recreation area shall serve as a nonvoting member of the Advisory Commission. The Advisory Commission shall designate one of its members as Chairman.

(b) Terms of office; reappointment(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), members of the Advisory Commission shall serve for terms of three years. Any voting member of the Advisory Commission may be reappointed for one additional three-year term.

(2) The members first appointed under paragraph (1) shall serve for a term of one year. The members first appointed under paragraphs (2), (3), (5), and (6) shall serve for a term of two years.


(c) MeetingsThe Advisory Commission shall meet on a regular basis. Notice of meetings and agenda shall be published in local newspapers which have a distribution which generally covers the area affected by the park. Commission meetings shall be held at locations and in such a manner as to insure adequate public involvement.


(d) Compensation and expensesMembers of the Commission shall serve without compensation as such, but the Secretary may pay expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out their responsibilities under this subchapter on vouchers signed by the Chairman.


(e) TerminationThe Advisory Commission shall terminate on the date ten years after October 30, 1984.


(Pub. L. 95–344, title I, § 106, as added Pub. L. 98–568, § 1(f), Oct. 30, 1984, 98 Stat. 2931; amended Pub. L. 106–154, § 2(e)(5), (6), Dec. 9, 1999, 113 Stat. 1739.)

Amendments1999—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 106–154, § 2(e)(5), substituted “this subchapter” for “this subchapter and chapter 43 of this title” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 106–154, § 2(e)(6), substituted “this subchapter” for “this subchapter and chapter 43 of this title”.


