§ 18f–2. Additional functions(a) Museum objects and collectionsIn addition to the functions specified in section 18f of this title, the Secretary of the Interior may perform the following functions in such manner as he shall consider to be in the public interest:(1) Transfer museum objects and museum collections that the Secretary determines are no longer needed for museum purposes to qualified Federal agencies, including the Smithsonian Institution, that have programs to preserve and interpret cultural or natural heritage, and accept the transfer of museum objects and museum collections for the purposes of this section and sections 18f and 18f–3 of this title from any other Federal agency, without reimbursement. The head of any other Federal agency may transfer, without reimbursement, museum objects and museum collections directly to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior for the purpose of this section and sections 18f and 18f–3 of this title.

(2) Convey museum objects and museum collections that the Secretary determines are no longer needed for museum purposes, without monetary consideration but subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary deems necessary, to private institutions exempt from Federal taxation under section 501(c)(3) of title 26 and to non-Federal governmental entities if the Secretary determines that the recipient is dedicated to the preservation and interpretation of natural or cultural heritage and is qualified to manage the property, prior to any conveyance under this subsection.

(3) Destroy or cause to be destroyed museum objects and museum collections that the Secretary determines to have no scientific, cultural, historic, educational, esthetic, or monetary value.


(b) Review and approvalThe Secretary shall ensure that museum collections are treated in a careful and deliberate manner that protects the public interest. Prior to taking any action under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall establish a systematic review and approval process, including consultation with appropriate experts, that meets the highest standards of the museum profession for all actions taken under this section.


(July 1, 1955, ch. 259, § 2, as added Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, § 804(a)(2), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4187.)
