§ 79k. Mitigation of adverse economic impacts to local economy resulting from additional lands; analysis of Federal actions necessary or desirable; consultations and considerations by Secretaries concerned; reports to Congress; implementation of programs; funding requirements(a) The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretaries of Agriculture, Commerce, and Labor, shall conduct an analysis of appropriate Federal actions that may be necessary or desirable to mitigate any adverse economic impacts to public and private segments of the local economy, other than the owners of properties taken by this Act, as a result of the addition of property to Redwood National Park under sections 79b and 79c of this title. The Secretaries shall also consider the benefits of making grants or entering into contracts or cooperative agreements with the State of California or Del Norte and Humboldt Counties as provided by subsection (b) of this section for the purpose of development and implementation of a program of forest resource improvement and utilization, including, but not limited to, reforestation, erosion control, and other forest land conservation measures, fisheries and fish and wildlife habitat improvements, and wood energy facilities. Not later than January 1, 1979, the Secretary shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate a report of his analysis, including his recommendations with respect to actions that should be taken to mitigate any significant short-term and long-term adverse effects on the local economy caused by such addition.

(b) The Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary, and pursuant to his study, shall apply such existing programs as are necessary and appropriate to further mitigate identified employment and other adverse economic impacts on public and private segments of the local economy, other than with regard to the payment of just compensation to the owners of properties taken by this Act and by this subchapter. In addition to the land rehabilitation and employment provisions of this Act, which should have a substantial positive economic effect on the local economy, the Secretaries of Commerce and Labor are further authorized and directed to implement existing authorities to establish employment programs, pursuant to such grants, contracts and cooperative agreements with agencies of the Federal Executive, the State of California, any political or governmental subdivision thereof, any corporation, not-for-profit corporation, private entity or person, for the development and implementation of such programs, as, in the discretion of the Secretaries of Commerce and Labor, may be necessary to provide employment opportunities to those individuals affected by this taking and to contribute to the economic revival of Del Norte and Humboldt Counties, in northern California. Effective on October 1, 1978, there are authorized such sums as may be necessary to carry out the employment and economic mitigation provisions of this Act: Provided, That the authority to make payments under this section shall be effective only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts.

(Pub. L. 95–250, title I, § 102(a), (b), Mar. 27, 1978, 92 Stat. 166, 167.)


References in TextThis Act, referred to in text, means Pub. L. 95–250, Mar. 27, 1978, 92 Stat. 163, as amended, which, insofar as classified to the Code, enacted sections 79c–1, 79k to 79q of this title, amended sections 1a–1, 79b, and 79c of this title, and enacted provisions set out as a note under section 79k of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
Sections 79b and 79c of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “the first section of this Act”, meaning section 101 of Pub. L. 95–250. Provisions of section 101 relating to the addition of property to Redwood National Park are classified to sections 79b and 79c of this title.

Codification
Section was not enacted as part of Pub. L. 90–545, Oct. 2, 1968, 82 Stat. 931, which comprises this subchapter.

Study of Timber Harvest Scheduling Alternatives for Six Rivers National Forest; Scope; Report to CongressPub. L. 95–250, title I, § 102(c), Mar. 27, 1978, 92 Stat. 167, directed Secretary of Agriculture, within one year after Mar. 27, 1978, to prepare and transmit to Congress a study of timber harvest scheduling alternatives for Six Rivers National Forest, which alternatives were to exclude timber inventories standing on units of Wilderness Preservation System at time of study and were to be consistent with laws applicable to management of national forests.

Reference to Secretary as Reference to Secretary of Department of the Interior; ExceptionPub. L. 95–250, title I, § 109, Mar. 27, 1978, 92 Stat. 172, provided that: “Unless otherwise indicated hereinbefore, a reference to the Secretary will refer to the Secretary of the Department of the Interior, except in subsections 103(d) through 103(i) [section 79l(d) to (i) of this title], where a reference to the Secretary will refer to the Secretary of the Department of Labor.”



