§ 3005. Commission review of, and recommendations regarding, Harmonized Tariff Schedule(a) In generalThe Commission shall keep the Harmonized Tariff Schedule under continuous review and periodically, at such time as amendments to the Convention are recommended by the Customs Cooperation Council for adoption, and as other circumstances warrant, shall recommend to the President such modifications in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule as the Commission considers necessary or appropriate—(1) to conform the Harmonized Tariff Schedule with amendments made to the Convention;

(2) to promote the uniform application of the Convention and particularly the Annex thereto;

(3) to ensure that the Harmonized Tariff Schedule is kept up-to-date in light of changes in technology or in patterns of international trade;

(4) to alleviate unnecessary administrative burdens; and

(5) to make technical rectifications.


(b) Agency and public views regarding recommendationsIn formulating recommendations under subsection (a) of this section, the Commission shall solicit, and give consideration to, the views of interested Federal agencies and the public. For purposes of obtaining public views, the Commission—(1) shall give notice of the proposed recommendations and afford reasonable opportunity for interested parties to present their views in writing; and

(2) may provide for a public hearing.


(c) Submission of recommendationsThe Commission shall submit recommendations under this section to the President in the form of a report that shall include a summary of the information on which the recommendations were based, together with a statement of the probable economic effect of each recommended change on any industry in the United States. The report also shall include a copy of all written views submitted by interested Federal agencies and a copy or summary, prepared by the Commission, of the views of all other interested parties.


(d) Requirements regarding recommendationsThe Commission may not recommend any modification to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule unless the modification meets the following requirements:(1) The modification must—(A) be consistent with the Convention or any amendment thereto recommended for adoption;

(B) be consistent with sound nomenclature principles; and

(C) ensure substantial rate neutrality.


(2) Any change to a rate of duty must be consequent to, or necessitated by, nomenclature modifications that are recommended under this section.

(3) The modification must not alter existing conditions of competition for the affected United States industry, labor, or trade.


(Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1205, Aug. 23, 1988, 102 Stat. 1150.)


References in TextThe Harmonized Tariff Schedule, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d), is not set out in the Code. See Publication of Harmonized Tariff Schedule note set out under section 1202 of this title.

Commission Report on Operation of Implementation of Harmonized Tariff ScheduleSection 1216 of Pub. L. 100–418 required Commission, in consultation with other appropriate Federal agencies, to prepare and submit to Congress and President a report regarding operation of subtitle B (§§ 1201–1217) of title I of Pub. L. 100–418, during the 12-month period commencing on effective date of Harmonized Tariff Schedule, Jan. 1, 1989, said report to be submitted to Congress and President before close of 6-month period beginning on day after last day of such 12-month period.


