“SEC. 1632. ADDITIONAL REPORTS.“(a) Extension of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Services to Additional Persons.—The Secretary of Defense shall evaluate the feasibility of extending department sexual assault prevention and response services to Department of Defense civilian employees and employees of defense contractors who—“(1) are victims of a sexual assault; and

“(2) work on or in the vicinity of a military installation or with members of the Armed Forces.


“(b) Extension of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program to Reserve Components.—The Secretary of Defense shall evaluate the application of the sexual assault prevention and response program to members of the reserve components, including, at a minimum, the following:“(1) The ability of members of the reserve components to access the services available under the sexual assault prevention and response program, including policies and programs of a specific military department or Armed Force.

“(2) The quality of training provided to Sexual Assault Response Coordinators and Sexual Assault Victim Advocates in the reserve components.

“(3) The degree to which the services available for regular and reserve members under the sexual assault prevention and response program are integrated.

“(4) Such recommendations as the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate on how to improve the services available for reserve members under the sexual assault prevention and response program and their access to the services.


“(c) Copy of Record of Court-martial to Victim of Sexual Assault.—The Secretary of Defense shall evaluate the feasibility of requiring that a copy of the prepared record of the proceedings of a general or special court-martial involving a sexual assault be given to the victim in cases in which the victim testified during the proceedings.

“(d) Access to Legal Assistance.—The Secretary of Defense shall evaluate the feasibility of authorizing members of the Armed Forces who are victims of a sexual assault and dependents of members who are victims of a sexual assault to receive legal assistance provided by a military legal assistance counsel certified as competent to provide legal assistance related to responding to sexual assault.

“(e) Use of Forensic Medical Examiners.—The Secretary of Defense shall evaluate the feasibility of utilizing, when sexual assaults involving members of the Armed Forces occur in a military environment where civilian resources are limited or unavailable, forensic medical examiners who are specially trained regarding the collection and preservation of evidence in cases involving sexual assault.

“(f) Submission of Results.—The Secretary of Defense shall submit the results of the evaluations required by this section to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives.”

