§ 460hhh–3. Management(a) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall manage the Recreation Area in accordance with the laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to the National Forest System and this subchapter to provide for—(1) the conservation of scenic, scientific, historic, cultural, and other values contributing to public enjoyment;

(2) the conservation of fish and wildlife populations and habitat, including the use of prescribed fire to improve or maintain habitat;

(3) the protection of watersheds and the maintenance of free flowing streams and the quality of ground and surface waters in accordance with applicable law;

(4) public outdoor recreation benefits, including, but not limited to, hunting, fishing, trapping, hiking, horseback riding, backpacking, rock climbing, camping, and nature study;

(5) wilderness areas as designated by Congress; and

(6) the management and use of natural resources in a manner compatible with the purposes for which the Recreation Area is established.


(b) Hunting, trapping, and fishing(1) In generalSubject to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall permit hunting, trapping, fishing, and habitat management within the Recreation Area in accordance with the laws of the United States and the State of Nevada.


(2) ExceptionsThe Secretary, in consultation with the Nevada Department of Wildlife, may designate zones where and periods when hunting, trapping, or fishing shall not be permitted for reasons of public safety, administration, or public use and enjoyment.



(c) GrazingThe grazing of livestock on Federal lands may be permitted to continue pursuant to Federal law and subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, and practices as the Secretary considers necessary.


(d) Preventive measuresNothing in this subchapter shall preclude such reasonable measures as the Secretary considers necessary to protect the land and resources from fire or insect or disease infestation in the Recreation Area.


(Pub. L. 103–63, § 5, Aug. 4, 1993, 107 Stat. 298.)
