§ 5327. Treatment of certain companies that cease to be bank holding companies(a) ApplicabilityThis section shall apply to—(1) any entity that—(A) was a bank holding company having total consolidated assets equal to or greater than $50,000,000,000 as of January 1, 2010; and

(B) received financial assistance under or participated in the Capital Purchase Program established under the Troubled Asset Relief Program authorized by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 [12 U.S.C. 5201 et seq.]; and


(2) any successor entity (as defined by the Board of Governors, in consultation with the Council) to an entity described in paragraph (1).


(b) TreatmentIf an entity described in subsection (a) ceases to be a bank holding company at any time after January 1, 2010, then such entity shall be treated as a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of Governors, as if the Council had made a determination under section 5323 of this title with respect to that entity.


(c) Appeal(1) Request for hearingAn entity may request, in writing, an opportunity for a written or oral hearing before the Council to appeal its treatment as a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board of Governors in accordance with this section. Upon receipt of the request, the Council shall fix a time (not later than 30 days after the date of receipt of the request) and place at which such entity may appear, personally or through counsel, to submit written materials (or, at the sole discretion of the Council, oral testimony and oral argument).


(2) Decision(A) Proposed decisionA Council decision to grant an appeal under this subsection shall be made by a vote of not fewer than ⅔ of the voting members then serving, including an affirmative vote by the Chairperson. Not later than 60 days after the date of a hearing under paragraph (1), the Council shall submit a report to, and may testify before, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives on the proposed decision of the Council regarding an appeal under paragraph (1), which report shall include a statement of the basis for the proposed decision of the Council.


(B) Notice of final decisionThe Council shall notify the subject entity of the final decision of the Council regarding an appeal under paragraph (1), which notice shall contain a statement of the basis for the final decision of the Council, not later than 60 days after the later of—(i) the date of the submission of the report under subparagraph (A); or

(ii) if, not later than 1 year after the date of submission of the report under subparagraph (A), the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate or the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives holds one or more hearings regarding such report, the date of the last such hearing.


(C) ConsiderationsIn making a decision regarding an appeal under paragraph (1), the Council shall consider whether the company meets the standards under section 5323(a) or 5323(b) of this title, as applicable, and the definition of the term “nonbank financial company” under section 5311 of this title. The decision of the Council shall be final, subject to the review under paragraph (3).



(3) ReviewIf the Council denies an appeal under this subsection, the Council shall, not less frequently than annually, review and reevaluate the decision.



(Pub. L. 111–203, title I, § 117, July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1406.)


References in TextThe Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(B), is div. A of Pub. L. 110–343, Oct. 3, 2008, 122 Stat. 3765, which is classified principally to chapter 52 (§ 5201 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5201 of this title and Tables.


