§ 428d–1. Acquisition of additional lands
The following-described tracts or parcels of land, lying and being within the seventh civil district of Stewart County, Tennessee, are transferred from the jurisdiction of the Secretary of War to the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior as additions to the Fort Donelson National Battlefield, and shall after August 30, 1937, be subject to all laws and rules and regulations applicable to said battlefield:
Tract numbered 1, a right-of-way, fifty feet wide, lying twenty-five feet on each side of a center line, beginning at a point in the southerly boundary line of lock D reservation, seven hundred and thirty-four and eight-tenths feet from the southwest corner of this reservation; thence south thirty-one degrees five minutes west seventy-seven and one-tenth feet, thence south eighty-six degrees twenty-one minutes west four hundred and seventy-nine and nine-tenths feet, thence south sixty-three degrees fifty-three minutes west two hundred and sixty-two and three-tenths feet, thence south thirty-nine degrees thirty-six minutes west one hundred and eighty-six and seven-tenths feet, thence south exactly forty minutes east exactly one hundred and ninety-four feet, thence south thirty degrees fifty-eight minutes east three hundred and fourteen and five-tenths feet, thence south twenty-eight degrees fifteen minutes east exactly eighty-five feet, thence south twenty-eight degrees thirty-seven minutes east two hundred and fifty and five-tenths feet, thence south four degrees six minutes east two hundred and sixty-one and seven-tenths feet, thence south thirty-six degrees twenty-seven minutes east two hundred and eighty-two and three-tenths feet, thence south twenty-three degrees forty-five minutes east one hundred and seventy-eight and three-tenths feet to center line of county road, reserving, however, to the Department of the Army the right to the continued use of the road over this tract as a means of access to lock D.
Tract numbered 2, beginning at a point in the southern boundary line of lock D reservation, seven hundred and fifty-three and five-tenths feet from the southwest corner of this reservation, thence north seventy-four degrees twenty-eight minutes east one hundred and ninety-one and ninety-eight one-hundredths feet, thence south eighty-five degrees twelve minutes east fifty-two and nine-tenths feet, thence south fifty-one degrees thirty-six minutes east thirty-two and nine-tenths feet, thence south nine degrees thirty-three minutes east one hundred and seventeen and two one-hundredths feet, thence south thirty-one degrees three minutes west sixty-nine and eighty-two one-hundredths feet, thence north fifty-eight degrees fifty-seven minutes west two hundred and eighty-eight and eight one-hundredths feet to beginning.
Tract numbered 3, beginning at a point in the southern boundary line of lock D reservation, five hundred and ninety feet from the southwest corner of this reservation, this point being marked by an iron fence post, thence north fifty-eight degrees fifty-seven minutes west five hundred and ninety feet along the southern boundary line of lock D reservation, thence north thirty-one degrees three minutes east four hundred and eighty-eight feet along the western boundary line of the lock D reservation to low-water mark on bank of Cumberland River, thence along low-water line of Cumberland River in a southeasterly direction three hundred and thirty-five feet, thence south thirty-four degrees five minutes west one hundred and twenty-three feet to an iron pin, thence south fifty-five degrees fifty-five minutes east three hundred and seven and five-tenths feet to an iron pin, thence south forty degrees five minutes west three hundred and ten and five-tenths feet to beginning.
(Aug. 30, 1937, ch. 888, § 1, 50 Stat. 881; July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, § 205(a), 61 Stat. 501; Pub. L. 86–738, § 4, Sept. 8, 1960, 74 Stat. 876.)


Change of Name
Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, 61 Stat. 501. Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 641. Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued military Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.
“Fort Donelson National Battlefield” and “battlefield” substituted in text for “Fort Donelson National Military Park” and “park”, respectively, in view of redesignation of Fort Donelson National Military Park as Fort Donelson National Battlefield by Pub. L. 86–738. See section 428n of this title.


