§ 2116. Military nursing research(a) Definitions.—In this section:(1) The term “military nursing research” means research on the furnishing of care and services by nurses in the armed forces.

(2) The term “TriService Nursing Research Program” means the program of military nursing research authorized under this section.


(b) Program Authorized.—The Secretary of Defense may establish at the University a program of military nursing research.

(c) TriService Research Group.—The TriService Nursing Research Program shall be administered by a TriService Nursing Research Group composed of Army, Navy, and Air Force nurses who are involved in military nursing research and are designated by the Secretary concerned to serve as members of the group.

(d) Duties of Group.—The TriService Nursing Research Group shall—(1) develop for the Department of Defense recommended guidelines for requesting, reviewing, and funding proposed military nursing research projects; and

(2) make available to Army, Navy, and Air Force nurses and Department of Defense officials concerned with military nursing research—(A) information about nursing research projects that are being developed or carried out in the Army, Navy, and Air Force; and

(B) expertise and information beneficial to the encouragement of meaningful nursing research.



(e) Research Topics.—For purposes of this section, military nursing research includes research on the following issues:(1) Issues regarding how to improve the results of nursing care and services provided in the armed forces in time of peace.

(2) Issues regarding how to improve the results of nursing care and services provided in the armed forces in time of war.

(3) Issues regarding how to prevent complications associated with battle injuries.

(4) Issues regarding how to prevent complications associated with the transporting of patients in the military medical evacuation system.

(5) Issues regarding how to improve methods of training nursing personnel.

(6) Clinical nursing issues, including such issues as prevention and treatment of child abuse and spouse abuse.

(7) Women’s health issues.

(8) Wellness issues.

(9) Preventive medicine issues.

(10) Home care management issues.

(11) Case management issues.


(Added Pub. L. 104–106, div. A, title VII, § 741(a), Feb. 10, 1996, 110 Stat. 384.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 2116, added Pub. L. 92–426, § 2(a), Sept. 21, 1972, 86 Stat. 716, directed Secretary of Defense to report periodically to Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives on feasibility of establishing educational institutions similar or identical to University at any other locations he deemed appropriate, with last such report to be submitted by June 30, 1976, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 98–94, title XII, § 1268(12)(A), Sept. 24, 1983, 97 Stat. 706.


