§ 839. Congressional declaration of purpose
The purposes of this chapter, together with the provisions of other laws applicable to the Federal Columbia River Power System, are all intended to be construed in a consistent manner. Such purposes are also intended to be construed in a manner consistent with applicable environmental laws. Such purposes are:(1) to encourage, through the unique opportunity provided by the Federal Columbia River Power System—(A) conservation and efficiency in the use of electric power, and

(B) the development of renewable resources within the Pacific Northwest;


(2) to assure the Pacific Northwest of an adequate, efficient, economical, and reliable power supply;

(3) to provide for the participation and consultation of the Pacific Northwest States, local governments, consumers, customers, users of the Columbia River System (including Federal and State fish and wildlife agencies and appropriate Indian tribes), and the public at large within the region in—(A) the development of regional plans and programs related to energy conservation, renewable resources, other resources, and protecting, mitigating and enhancing fish and wildlife resources,

(B) facilitating the orderly planning of the region’s power system, and

(C) providing environmental quality;


(4) to provide that the customers of the Bonneville Power Administration and their consumers continue to pay all costs necessary to produce, transmit, and conserve resources to meet the region’s electric power requirements, including the amortization on a current basis of the Federal investment in the Federal Columbia River Power System;

(5) to insure, subject to the provisions of this chapter—(A) that the authorities and responsibilities of State and local governments, electric utility systems, water management agencies, and other non-Federal entities for the regulation, planning, conservation, supply, distribution, and use of electric power shall be construed to be maintained, and

(B) that Congress intends that this chapter not be construed to limit or restrict the ability of customers to take actions in accordance with other applicable provisions of Federal or State law, including, but not limited to, actions to plan, develop, and operate resources and to achieve conservation, without regard to this chapter; and


(6) to protect, mitigate and enhance the fish and wildlife, including related spawning grounds and habitat, of the Columbia River and its tributaries, particularly anadromous fish which are of significant importance to the social and economic well-being of the Pacific Northwest and the Nation and which are dependent on suitable environmental conditions substantially obtainable from the management and operation of the Federal Columbia River Power System and other power generating facilities on the Columbia River and its tributaries.

(Pub. L. 96–501, § 2, Dec. 5, 1980, 94 Stat. 2697.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in provision preceding par. (1) and in par. (5), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 96–501, Dec. 5, 1980, 94 Stat. 2697, known as the Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act, which enacted this chapter, amended sections 837, 838i, and 838k of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under this section. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.

Effective DatePub. L. 96–501, § 11, Dec. 5, 1980, 94 Stat. 2735, provided that: “This Act [enacting this chapter, amending sections 837, 838i, and 838k of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section] shall be effective on the date of enactment [Dec. 5, 1980], or October 1, 1980, whichever is later. For purposes of this Act, the term ‘date of the enactment of this Act’ means such date of enactment [Dec. 5, 1980] or October 1, 1980, whichever is later.”


Short TitlePub. L. 96–501, § 1, Dec. 5, 1980, 94 Stat. 2697, provided in part that: “This Act [enacting this chapter, amending sections 837, 838i, and 838k of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section] may be cited as the ‘Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act’.”



