§ 5606. Prohibited acts and penalties(a) ProhibitionIt is unlawful for any person or vessel that is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States—(1) to violate any regulation issued under this chapter or any measure that is legally binding on the United States under the Convention;

(2) to refuse to permit any authorized enforcement officer to board a fishing vessel that is subject to the person’s control for purposes of conducting any search or inspection in connection with the enforcement of this chapter, any regulation issued under this chapter, or any measure that is legally binding on the United States under the Convention;

(3) forcibly to assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, or interfere with any authorized enforcement officer in the conduct of any search or inspection described in paragraph (2);

(4) to resist a lawful arrest for any act prohibited by this section;

(5) to ship, transport, offer for sale, sell, purchase, import, export, or have custody, control, or possession of, any fish taken or retained in violation of this section; or

(6) to interfere with, delay, or prevent, by any means, the apprehension or arrest of another person, knowing that the other person has committed an act prohibited by this section.


(b) Civil penaltyAny person who commits any act that is unlawful under subsection (a) of this section shall be liable to the United States for a civil penalty, or may be subject to a permit sanction, under section 1858 of this title.


(c) Criminal penaltyAny person who commits an act that is unlawful under paragraph (2), (3), (4), or (6) of subsection (a) of this section shall be guilty of an offense punishable under section 1859(b) of this title.


(d) Civil forfeitures(1) In generalAny vessel (including its gear, furniture, appurtenances, stores, and cargo) used in the commission of an act that is unlawful under subsection (a) of this section, and any fish (or the fair market value thereof) taken or retained, in any manner, in connection with or as a result of the commission of any act that is unlawful under subsection (a) of this section, shall be subject to seizure and forfeiture as provided in section 1860 of this title.


(2) Disposal of fishAny fish seized pursuant to this chapter may be disposed of pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction or, if perishable, in a manner prescribed by regulations issued by the Secretary.



(e) EnforcementThe Secretary and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall have the authority specified in section 1861(a), (b)(1), and (c) of this title for that purpose.


(f) Jurisdiction of courtsThe district courts of the United States shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any case or controversy arising under this section and may, at any time—(1) enter restraining orders or prohibitions;

(2) issue warrants, process in rem, or other process;

(3) prescribe and accept satisfactory bonds or other security; and

(4) take such other actions as are in the interests of justice.


(Pub. L. 104–43, title II, § 207, Nov. 3, 1995, 109 Stat. 379; Pub. L. 105–384, title II, § 201(b)(1), Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3451.)

Amendments1998—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 105–384 substituted “section” for “sections”.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


