§ 3371. NAFTA article impact in import relief cases under Trade Act of 1974(a) In generalIf, in any investigation initiated under chapter 1 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.], the International Trade Commission makes an affirmative determination (or a determination which the President may treat as an affirmative determination under such chapter by reason of section 1330(d) of this title), the International Trade Commission shall also find (and report to the President at the time such injury determination is submitted to the President) whether—(1) imports of the article from a NAFTA country, considered individually, account for a substantial share of total imports; and

(2) imports of the article from a NAFTA country, considered individually or, in exceptional circumstances, imports from NAFTA countries considered collectively, contribute importantly to the serious injury, or threat thereof, caused by imports.


(b) Factors(1) Substantial import shareIn determining whether imports from a NAFTA country, considered individually, account for a substantial share of total imports, such imports normally shall not be considered to account for a substantial share of total imports if that country is not among the top 5 suppliers of the article subject to the investigation, measured in terms of import share during the most recent 3-year period.


(2) Application of “contribute importantly” standardIn determining whether imports from a NAFTA country or countries contribute importantly to the serious injury, or threat thereof, the International Trade Commission shall consider such factors as the change in the import share of the NAFTA country or countries, and the level and change in the level of imports of such country or countries. In applying the preceding sentence, imports from a NAFTA country or countries normally shall not be considered to contribute importantly to serious injury, or the threat thereof, if the growth rate of imports from such country or countries during the period in which an injurious increase in imports occurred is appreciably lower than the growth rate of total imports from all sources over the same period.



(c) “Contribute importantly” definedFor purposes of this section and section 3372(a) of this title, the term “contribute importantly” refers to an important cause, but not necessarily the most important cause.


(Pub. L. 103–182, title III, § 311, Dec. 8, 1993, 107 Stat. 2106.)


References in TextThe Trade Act of 1974, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 93–618, Jan. 3, 1975, 88 Stat. 1978, as amended. Chapter 1 of title II of the Act is classified generally to part 1 (§ 2251 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 12 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 2101 of this title and Tables.


