“SEC. 1354. DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY FUNCTIONS AND MINIMUM FINANCIAL COMMITMENT OF NON-FEDERAL GOVERNMENT PARTICIPANTS.“(a) DARPA Functions.—The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, shall carry out the following functions with respect to the National Shipbuilding Initiative program:“(1) Consultation with the Maritime Administration, the Office of Economic Adjustment, the National Economic Council, the National Shipbuilding Research Project, the Coast Guard, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, appropriate naval commands and activities, and other appropriate Federal agencies on—“(A) development and transfer to the private sector of dual-use shipbuilding technologies, ship repair technologies, and shipbuilding management technologies;

“(B) assessments of potential markets for maritime products; and

“(C) recommendation of industrial entities, partnerships, joint ventures, or consortia for short- and long-term manufacturing technology investment strategies.


“(2) Funding and program management activities to develop innovative design and production processes and the technologies required to implement those processes.

“(3) Facilitation of industry and Government technology development and technology transfer activities (including education and training, market assessments, simulations, hardware models and prototypes, and national and regional industrial base studies).

“(4) Integration of promising technology advances made in the Technology Reinvestment Program of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency into the National Shipbuilding Initiative to effect full defense conversion potential.


“(b) Financial Commitment of Non-Federal Government Participants.—“(1) Maximum department of defense share.—The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the amount of funds provided by the Secretary to a non-Federal government participant does not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of technology development and technology transfer activities.

“(2) Regulations.—The Secretary may prescribe regulations to provide for consideration of in-kind contributions by non-Federal Government participants in a partnership for the purpose of calculating the share of the partnership costs that has been or is being undertaken by such participants. In prescribing the regulations, the Secretary may determine that a participant that is a small business concern may use funds received under the Small Business Innovation Research Program or the Small Business Technology Transfer Program to help pay the costs of partnership activities. Any such funds so used may be included in calculating the amount of the financial commitment undertaken by the non-Federal Government participants unless the Secretary determines that the small business concern has not made a significant equity contribution in the program from non-Federal sources.”


