“SEC. 10. ACTIVITIES IN SUPPORT OF INFRASTRUCTURE TO SUPPORT INCREASING TRADE CAPACITY AND ECOTOURISM.“(a) Findings.—The Congress finds the following:“(1) Ecotourism, which consists of—“(A) responsible and sustainable travel and visitation to relatively undisturbed natural areas in order to enjoy and appreciate nature (and any accompanying cultural features, both past and present) and animals, including species that are rare or endangered,

“(B) promotion of conservation and provision for beneficial involvement of local populations, and

“(C) visitation designed to have low negative impact upon the environment,


is expected to expand 30 percent globally over the next decade.

“(2) Ecotourism will increase trade capacity by sustaining otherwise unsustainable infrastructure, such as road, port, water, energy, and telecommunication development.

“(3) According to the United States Department of State and the United Nations Environment Programme, sustainable tourism, such as ecotourism, can be an important part of the economic development of a region, especially a region with natural and cultural protected areas.

“(4) Sub-Saharan Africa enjoys an international comparative advantage in ecotourism because it features extensive protected areas that host a variety of ecosystems and traditional cultures that are major attractions for nature-oriented tourism.

“(5) National parks and reserves in sub-Saharan Africa should be considered a basis for regional development, involving communities living within and adjacent to them and, given their strong international recognition, provide an advantage in ecotourism marketing and promotion.

“(6) Desert areas in sub-Saharan Africa represent complex ecotourism attractions, showcasing natural, geological, and archaeological features, and nomad and other cultures and traditions.

“(7) Many natural zones in sub-Saharan Africa cross the political borders of several countries; therefore, transboundary cooperation is fundamental for all types of ecotourism development.

“(8) The commercial viability of ecotourism is enhanced when small and medium enterprises, particularly microenterprises, successfully engage with the tourism industry in sub-Saharan Africa.

“(9) Adequate capacity building is an essential component of ecotourism development if local communities are to be real stakeholders that can sustain an equitable approach to ecotourism management.

“(10) Ecotourism needs to generate local community benefits by utilizing sub-Saharan Africa’s natural heritage, parks, wildlife reserves, and other protected areas that can play a significant role in encouraging local economic development by sourcing food and other locally produced resources.


“(b) Action by the President.—The President shall develop and implement policies to—“(1) encourage the development of infrastructure projects that will help to increase trade capacity and a sustainable ecotourism industry in eligible sub-Saharan African countries;

“(2) encourage and facilitate transboundary cooperation among sub-Saharan African countries in order to facilitate trade;

“(3) encourage the provision of technical assistance to eligible sub-Saharan African countries to establish and sustain adequate trade capacity development; and

“(4) encourage micro-, small-, and medium-sized enterprises in eligible sub-Saharan African countries to participate in the ecotourism industry.


