§ 3807. Congressional Oversight Group(a) Members and functions(1) In generalBy not later than 60 days after August 6, 2002, and not later than 30 days after the convening of each Congress, the chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the chairman of the Committee on Finance of the Senate shall convene the Congressional Oversight Group.


(2) Membership from the HouseIn each Congress, the Congressional Oversight Group shall be comprised of the following Members of the House of Representatives:(A) The chairman and ranking member of the Committee on Ways and Means, and 3 additional members of such Committee (not more than 2 of whom are members of the same political party).

(B) The chairman and ranking member, or their designees, of the committees of the House of Representatives which would have, under the Rules of the House of Representatives, jurisdiction over provisions of law affected by a trade agreement negotiations for which are conducted at any time during that Congress and to which this chapter would apply.


(3) Membership from the SenateIn each Congress, the Congressional Oversight Group shall also be comprised of the following members of the Senate:(A) The chairman and ranking member of the Committee on Finance and 3 additional members of such Committee (not more than 2 of whom are members of the same political party).

(B) The chairman and ranking member, or their designees, of the committees of the Senate which would have, under the Rules of the Senate, jurisdiction over provisions of law affected by a trade agreement negotiations for which are conducted at any time during that Congress and to which this chapter would apply.


(4) AccreditationEach member of the Congressional Oversight Group described in paragraphs (2)(A) and (3)(A) shall be accredited by the United States Trade Representative on behalf of the President as an official adviser to the United States delegation in negotiations for any trade agreement to which this chapter applies. Each member of the Congressional Oversight Group described in paragraphs (2)(B) and (3)(B) shall be accredited by the United States Trade Representative on behalf of the President as an official adviser to the United States delegation in the negotiations by reason of which the member is in the Congressional Oversight Group. The Congressional Oversight Group shall consult with and provide advice to the Trade Representative regarding the formulation of specific objectives, negotiating strategies and positions, the development of the applicable trade agreement, and compliance and enforcement of the negotiated commitments under the trade agreement.


(5) ChairThe Congressional Oversight Group shall be chaired by the Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance of the Senate.



(b) Guidelines(1) Purpose and revisionThe United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the chairmen and ranking minority members of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate—(A) shall, within 120 days after August 6, 2002, develop written guidelines to facilitate the useful and timely exchange of information between the Trade Representative and the Congressional Oversight Group convened under this section; and

(B) may make such revisions to the guidelines as may be necessary from time to time.


(2) ContentThe guidelines developed under paragraph (1) shall provide for, among other things—(A) regular, detailed briefings of the Congressional Oversight Group regarding negotiating objectives, including the promotion of certain priorities referred to in section 3802(c) of this title, and positions and the status of the applicable negotiations, beginning as soon as practicable after the Congressional Oversight Group is convened, with more frequent briefings as trade negotiations enter the final stage;

(B) access by members of the Congressional Oversight Group, and staff with proper security clearances, to pertinent documents relating to the negotiations, including classified materials;

(C) the closest practicable coordination between the Trade Representative and the Congressional Oversight Group at all critical periods during the negotiations, including at negotiation sites;

(D) after the applicable trade agreement is concluded, consultation regarding ongoing compliance and enforcement of negotiated commitments under the trade agreement; and

(E) the time frame for submitting the report required under section 3802(c)(8) of this title.



(c) Request for meetingUpon the request of a majority of the Congressional Oversight Group, the President shall meet with the Congressional Oversight Group before initiating negotiations with respect to a trade agreement, or at any other time concerning the negotiations.


(Pub. L. 107–210, div. B, title XXI, § 2107, Aug. 6, 2002, 116 Stat. 1017; Pub. L. 109–280, title XIV, § 1635(f)(6), Aug. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 1171.)

Amendments2006—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 109–280 substituted “paragraphs” for “paragraph” in two places.

Effective Date of 2006 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 109–280 applicable with respect to goods entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after the 15th day after Aug. 17, 2006, see section 1641 of Pub. L. 109–280, set out as a note under section 58c of this title.


Delegation of Functions
For delegation of functions of President under this section, see section 1 of Ex. Ord. No. 13277, Nov. 19, 2002, 67 F.R. 70305, set out as a note under section 3801 of this title.


