§ 3108. Regulation and enforcement(a) Rules, regulations and ordersThe Comptroller, the Board, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, are authorized and empowered to issue such rules, regulations, and orders as each of them may deem necessary in order to perform their respective duties and functions under this chapter and to administer and carry out the provisions and purposes of this chapter and prevent evasions thereof.


(b) Enforcement(1) In generalIn addition to any powers, remedies, or sanctions otherwise provided by law, compliance with the requirements imposed under this chapter or any amendment made by this chapter may be enforced under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1818] by any appropriate Federal banking agency as defined in that Act [12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.].


(2) Authority to administer oaths; subpoena powerIn the course of, or in connection with, an application, examination, investigation, or other proceeding under this chapter, the Board, the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as the case may be, any member of the Board or of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, and any designated representative of the Board, Comptroller, or Corporation (including any person designated to conduct any hearing under this chapter) may—(A) administer oaths and affirmations and take or cause to be taken depositions; and

(B) issue, revoke, quash, or modify any subpoena, including any subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of a witness or any subpoenas duces tecum.


(3) Administrative aspects of subpoenas(A) Attendance and production at designated siteThe attendance of any witness and the production of any document pursuant to a subpoena under paragraph (2) may be required at the place designated in the subpoena from any place in any State (as defined in section 3(a)(3) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1813(a)(3)]) or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.


(B) Service of subpoenaService of a subpoena issued under this subsection may be made by registered mail, or in such other manner reasonably calculated to give actual notice as the Board, Comptroller of the Currency, or Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation may by regulation or otherwise provide.


(C) Fees and travel expensesWitnesses subpoenaed under this subsection shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the district courts of the United States.



(4) Contumacy or refusal(A) In generalIn the case of contumacy of any person issued a subpoena under this subsection or a refusal by such person to comply with such subpoena, the Board, Comptroller of the Currency, or Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or any other party to proceedings in connection with which subpoena was issued may invoke the aid of—(i) the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, or

(ii) any district court of the United States within the jurisdiction of which the proceeding is being conducted or the witness resides or carries on business.


(B) Court orderAny court referred to in subparagraph (A) may issue an order requiring compliance with a subpoena issued under this subsection.



(5) Expenses and feesAny court having jurisdiction of any proceeding instituted under this subsection may allow any party to such proceeding such reasonable expenses and attorneys’ fees as the court deems just and proper.


(6) Criminal penaltyAny person who willfully fails or refuses to attend and testify or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, contracts, agreements, or other records in accordance with any subpoena under this subsection shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both. Each day during which any such failure or refusal continues shall be treated as a separate offense.



(c) Powers of Federal Reserve Board and Federal Deposit Insurance CorporationIn the case of any provision of the Federal Reserve Act [12 U.S.C. 221 et seq.] to which a foreign bank or branch thereof is subject under this chapter, and which is made applicable to nonmember insured banks by the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1811 et seq.], whether by cross-reference to the Federal Reserve Act or by a provision in substantially the same terms in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the administration, interpretation, and enforcement of such provision, insofar as it relates to any foreign bank or branch thereof as to which the Board is an appropriate Federal banking agency, are vested in the Board, but where the making of any report to the Board or a Federal Reserve bank is required under any such provision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation may require that a duplicate of any such report be sent directly to it. This subsection shall not be construed to impair any power of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to make regular or special examinations or to require special reports.


(Pub. L. 95–369, § 13, Sept. 17, 1978, 92 Stat. 624; Pub. L. 102–242, title II, § 209, Dec. 19, 1991, 105 Stat. 2297.)


References in TextFor definition of “this chapter”, referred to in text, see References in Text note set out under section 3101 of this title.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Act, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1) and (c), is act Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 967, § 2, 64 Stat. 873, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 16 (§ 1811 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1811 of this title and Tables.
The Federal Reserve Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is act Dec. 23, 1913, ch. 6, 38 Stat. 251, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 3 (§ 221 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see References in Text note set out under section 226 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1991—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 102–242 inserted heading, designated existing provisions as par. (1) and inserted par. heading, and added pars. (2) to (6).


