“SEC. 504. CONVEYANCE REQUIREMENTS.“(a) Configuration of Administrative Sites.—“(1) Configuration.—To facilitate the conveyance of an administrative site under this title, the Secretary may configure the administrative site—“(A) to maximize the marketability of the administrative site; and

“(B) to achieve management objectives.


“(2) Separate treatment of facility or improvement.—A facility or improvement on an administrative site to be conveyed under this title may be severed from the land and disposed of in a separate conveyance.

“(3) Terms, conditions, and reservations.—The conveyance of an administrative site under this title shall be subject to such terms, conditions, and reservations as the Secretary determines to be necessary to protect the public interest[.]


“(b) Consideration.—“(1) Consideration required.—A person or entity acquiring an administrative site under this title shall provide to the Secretary consideration in an amount that is at least equal to the market value of the administrative site.

“(2) Form of consideration.—“(A) Sale.—Consideration for an administrative site conveyed by sale under this title shall be paid in cash on conveyance of the administrative site.

“(B) Exchange.—If the administrative site is conveyed by exchange, the consideration shall be provided in the form of a conveyance to the Secretary of land or improvements that are equal in market value to the conveyed administrative site. If the market values are not equal, the market values may be equalized by—“(i) the Secretary making a cash payment to the person or entity acquiring the administrative site; or

“(ii) the person or entity acquiring the administrative site making a cash equalization payment to the Secretary.




“(c) Determination of Market Value.—The Secretary shall determine the market value of an administrative site to be conveyed under this title or of non-Federal land or improvements to be provided as consideration in exchange for an administrative site—“(1) by conducting an appraisal that is performed in accordance with—“(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions, established in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.); and

“(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice; or


“(2) by competitive sale.


“(d) Relation to Other Laws.—“(1) Federal property disposal.—Chapter 5 of subtitle I of title 40, United States Code, shall not apply to the conveyance of an administrative site under this title.

“(2) Land exchanges.—Section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act [of 1976] (43 U.S.C. 1716) shall not apply to the conveyance of an administrative site under this title carried out by means of an exchange or combination of sale and exchange.

“(3) Lead-based paint and asbestos abatement.—Notwithstanding any provision of law relating to the mitigation or abatement of lead-based paint or asbestos-containing building materials, the Secretary is not required to mitigate or abate lead-based paint or asbestos-containing building materials with respect to an administrative site to be conveyed under this title. However, if the administrative site has lead-based paint or asbestos-containing building materials, the Secretary shall—“(A) provide notice to the person or entity acquiring the administrative site of the presence of the lead-based paint or asbestos-containing building material; and

“(B) obtain written assurance from the person or entity acquiring the administrative site that the person or entity will comply with applicable Federal, State, and local laws relating to the management of the lead-based paint and asbestos-containing building materials.


“(4) Environmental review.—The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) shall apply to the conveyance of administrative sites under this title, except that, in any environmental review or analysis required under such Act for the conveyance of an administrative site under this title, the Secretary is only required to—“(A) analyze the most reasonably foreseeable use of the administrative site, as determined through a market analysis;

“(B) determine whether to include terms, conditions, and reservations under subsection (a)(3); and

“(C) evaluate the alternative of not conveying the administrative site, consistent with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.



“(e) Rejection of Offers.—The Secretary shall reject any offer made for the acquisition of an administrative site under this title if the Secretary determines that the offer is—“(1) not adequate to cover the market value of the administrative site; or

“(2) not otherwise in the public interest.


“(f) Consultation and Public Notice.—As appropriate, the Secretary is encouraged to work with the Administrator of the General Services Administration with respect to the conveyance of administrative sites under this title. Before making an administrative site available for conveyance under this title, the Secretary shall consult with local governmental officials of the community in which the administrative site is located and provide public notice of the proposed conveyance.

