§ 410tt–4. Salt River Bay National Historical Park and Ecological Preserve at St. Croix, Virgin Islands, Commission(a) EstablishmentThere is established a commission to be known as the Salt River Bay National Historical Park and Ecological Preserve at St. Croix, Virgin Islands, Commission.


(b) DutiesThe Commission shall—(1) make recommendations on how all lands and waters within the boundaries of the park can be jointly managed by the governments of the United States Virgin Islands and the United States in accordance with this subchapter;

(2) consult with the Secretary on the development of the general management plan required by section 410tt–3 of this title; and

(3) provide advice and recommendations to the Government of the United States Virgin Islands, upon request of the Government of the United States Virgin Islands.


(c) MembershipThe Commission shall be composed of 10 members, as follows:(1) The Governor of the United States Virgin Islands, or the designee of the Governor.

(2) The Secretary, or the designee of the Secretary.

(3) Four members appointed by the Secretary.

(4) Four members appointed by the Secretary from a list provided by the Governor of the United States Virgin Islands, at least one of whom shall be a member of the Legislature of the United States Virgin Islands.


Initial appointments made under this subsection shall be made within 120 days after February 24, 1992, except that the appointments made under paragraph (4) shall be made within 120 days after the date on which the Secretary receives such list.

(d) TermsThe members appointed under paragraphs (3) and (4) shall be appointed for terms of 4 years. A member of the Commission appointed for a definite term may serve after the expiration of the member’s term until a successor is appointed. A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made and shall be filled within 60 days after the expiration of the term.


(e) ChairThe Chair of the Commission shall alternate annually between the Secretary and the Governor of the United States Virgin Islands. All other officers of the Commission shall be elected by a majority of the members of the Commission to serve for terms established by the Commission.


(f) MeetingsThe Commission shall meet on a regular basis or at the call of the Chair. Notice of meetings and agenda shall be published in the Federal Register and local newspapers having a distribution that generally covers the United States Virgin Islands. Commission meetings shall be held at locations and in such a manner as to ensure adequate public involvement.


(g) ExpensesMembers of the Commission shall serve without compensation as such, but the Secretary may pay each member of the Commission travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with section 5703 of title 5. Members of the Commission who are full-time officers or employees of the United States or the Virgin Islands Government may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of their service on the Commission. The Secretary shall provide the Commission with a budget for travel expenses and staff, and guidelines by which expenditures shall be accounted for.


(h) Federal Advisory Committee ActExcept with respect to the provisions of section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, and except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the Commission.


(i) TerminationThe Commission shall terminate 10 years after February 24, 1992, unless the Secretary determines that it is necessary to continue consulting with the Commission in carrying out the purposes of this subchapter.


(Pub. L. 102–247, title I, § 106, Feb. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 35.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (h), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


