§ 6409. Definitions
In this chapter:(1) AdministratorThe term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.


(2) ConservationThe term “conservation” means the use of methods and procedures necessary to preserve or sustain corals and associated species as diverse, viable, and self-perpetuating coral reef ecosystems, including all activities associated with resource management, such as assessment, conservation, protection, restoration, sustainable use, and management of habitat; mapping; habitat monitoring; assistance in the development of management strategies for marine protected areas and marine resources consistent with the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.) and the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.); law enforcement; conflict resolution initiatives; community outreach and education; and that promote safe and ecologically sound navigation.


(3) CoralThe term “coral” means species of the phylum Cnidaria, including—(A) all species of the orders Antipatharia (black corals), Scleractinia (stony corals), Gorgonacea (horny corals), Stolonifera (organpipe corals and others), Alcyanacea (soft corals), and Coenothecalia (blue coral), of the class Anthozoa; and

(B) all species of the order Hydrocorallina (fire corals and hydrocorals) of the class Hydrozoa.


(4) Coral reefThe term “coral reef” means any reefs or shoals composed primarily of corals.


(5) Coral reef ecosystemThe term “coral reef ecosystem” means coral and other species of reef organisms (including reef plants) associated with coral reefs, and the nonliving environmental factors that directly affect coral reefs, that together function as an ecological unit in nature.


(6) Coral productsThe term “coral products” means any living or dead specimens, parts, or derivatives, or any product containing specimens, parts, or derivatives, of any species referred to in paragraph (3).


(7) SecretaryThe term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce.


(8) StateThe term “State” means any State of the United States that contains a coral reef ecosystem within its seaward boundaries, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States, or separate sovereign in free association with the United States, that contains a coral reef ecosystem within its seaward boundaries.


(Pub. L. 106–562, title II, § 210, Dec. 23, 2000, 114 Stat. 2805.)


References in TextThe National Marine Sanctuaries Act, referred to in par. (2), is title III of Pub. L. 92–532, Oct. 23, 1972, 86 Stat. 1061, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 32 (§ 1431 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1431 of this title and Tables.
The Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, referred to in par. (2), is Pub. L. 94–265, Apr. 13, 1976, 90 Stat. 331, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 38 (§ 1801 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1801 of this title and Tables.


