“SEC. 404. RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES OF ABOLISHED AGENCIES.“All employees identified for transfer under subsection (b) of section 403 (other than individuals described in subsection (c) or (d) of such section) shall be entitled to the following rights:“(1) Each employee so identified shall be transferred to the appropriate agency or entity for employment no later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 9, 1989] and such transfer shall be deemed a transfer of function for the purpose of section 3503 of title 5, United States Code.

“(2) Each transferred employee shall be guaranteed a position with the same status, tenure, grade, and pay as that held on the day immediately preceding the transfer. Each such employee holding a permanent position shall not be involuntarily separated or reduced in grade or compensation for 1 year after the date of transfer, except for cause or, if the employee is a temporary employee, separated in accordance with the terms of the appointment.

“(3)(A) In the case of employees occupying positions in the excepted service or the Senior Executive Service, any appointment authority established pursuant to law or regulations of the Office of Personnel Management for filling such positions shall be transferred, subject to subparagraph (B).

“(B) An agency or entity may decline a transfer of authority under subparagraph (A) (and the employees appointed pursuant thereto) to the extent that such authority relates to positions excepted from the competitive service because of their confidential, policy-making, policy-determining, or policy-advocating character, and noncareer positions in the Senior Executive Service (within the meaning of section 3132(a)(7) of title 5, United States Code).


“(4) If any agency or entity to which employees are transferred determines, after the end of the 1-year period beginning on the date the transfer of functions to such agency or entity is completed, that a reorganization of the combined work force is required, that reorganization shall be deemed a ‘major reorganization’ for purposes of affording affected employees retirement under section 8336(d)(2) or 8414(b)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code.

“(5) Any employee accepting employment with any agency or entity (other than the Office of Thrift Supervision) as a result of such transfer may retain for 1 year after the date such transfer occurs membership in any employee benefit program of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, including insurance, to which such employee belongs on the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 9, 1989] if—“(A) the employee does not elect to give up the benefit or membership in the program; and

“(B) the benefit or program is continued by the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision.


The difference in the costs between the benefits which would have been provided by such agency or entity and those provided by this section shall be paid by the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision. If any employee elects to give up membership in a health insurance program or the health insurance program is not continued by the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, the employee shall be permitted to select an alternate Federal health insurance program within 30 days of such election or notice, without regard to any other regularly scheduled open season.

“(6) Any employee employed by the Office of Thrift Supervision as a result of the transfer may retain membership in any employee benefit program of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, including insurance, which such employee has on the date of enactment of this Act, if such employee does not elect to give up such membership and the benefit or program is continued by the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision. If any employee elects to give up membership in a health insurance program or the health insurance program is not continued by the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, such employee shall be permitted to select an alternate Federal health insurance program within 30 days of such election or discontinuance, without regard to any other regularly scheduled open season.

“(7) A transferring employee in the Senior Executive Service shall be placed in a comparable position at the agency or entity to which such employee is transferred.

“(8) Transferring employees shall receive notice of their position assignments not later than 120 days after the effective date of their transfer.

“(9) Upon the termination of the Resolution Trust Corporation pursuant to section 21A(m)[(o)] of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act [former 12 U.S.C. 1441a(o)], any employee of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assigned to the Resolution Trust Corporation shall be reassigned to a position within the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (2) and (4) through (7) of this section, except that the liability for any difference in the costs of benefits described in paragraph (5) shall be a liability of the Resolution Trust Corporation and not the Office of Thrift Supervision.

