§ 2631. Intervention in proceedings(a) Authority to intervene and participateIn order to initiate and participate in the consideration of one or more of the standards established by subchapter II or other concepts which contribute to the achievement of the purposes of this chapter, the Secretary, any affected electric utility, or any electric consumer of an affected electric utility may intervene and participate as a matter of right in any ratemaking proceeding or other appropriate regulatory proceeding relating to rates or rate design which is conducted by a State regulatory authority (with respect to an electric utility for which it has ratemaking authority) or by a nonregulated electric utility.


(b) Access to informationAny intervenor or participant in a proceeding described in subsection (a) of this section shall have access to information available to other parties to the proceeding if such information is relevant to the issues to which his intervention or participation in such proceeding relates. Such information may be obtained through reasonable rules relating to discovery of information prescribed by the State regulatory authority (in the case of proceedings concerning electric utilities for which it has ratemaking authority) or by the nonregulated electric utility (in the case of a proceeding conducted by a nonregulated electric utility).


(c) Effective date; proceduresAny intervention or participation under this section, in any proceeding commenced before November 9, 1978, but not completed before such date, shall be permitted under this section only to the extent such intervention or participation is timely under otherwise applicable law.


(Pub. L. 95–617, title I, § 121, Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3128.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this title”, meaning title I (§ 101 et seq.) of Pub. L. 95–617, Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3120, which enacted subchapters I to IV of this chapter and section 6808 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, and amended sections 6802 to 6807 of Title 42. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Tables.


