§ 543e. Scenic Area Advisory Board(a) Establishment; consultations with SecretaryThere is hereby established the Scenic Area Advisory Board (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”). The Secretary shall consult with and seek the advice and recommendations of the Board with respect to—(1) the administration of the Scenic Area with respect to policies, programs, and activities in accordance with sections 543 to 543h of this title;

(2) the preparation and implementation of the comprehensive management plan; and

(3) the location of the visitor center authorized by section 543c(f) of this title.


(b) Composition and selectionThe Board shall be composed of nine members, who shall be selected as follows:(1) five members appointed by the Mono County Board of Supervisors;

(2) two members appointed by the Governor of California (one of whom shall be an employee of the California Division of Parks and Recreation);

(3) one member appointed by the mayor of the city of Los Angeles; and

(4) one member appointed by the Secretary (who shall be an employee of the Forest Service).


(c) Terms of appointmentEach member of the Board shall be appointed to serve for a term of three years except that the initial appointments shall be for terms as follows:(1) of those members appointed by the Mono County Board of Supervisors one shall be appointed to serve for a term of one year, two shall be for a term of two years, and two shall be for a term of three years;

(2) of those members appointed by the Governor of California one shall be appointed to serve for a term of one year and one shall be appointed to serve for a term of three years;

(3) the member appointed by the mayor of the city of Los Angeles shall be appointed to serve for a term of two years; and

(4) the member appointed by the Secretary shall be appointed to serve for a term of three years.


(d) Initial appointment; ChairmanThe members of the Board shall be appointed within ninety days of September 28, 1984. The members of the Board shall, at their first meeting, elect a Chairman.


(e) Annual meetings and consultations with Secretary or designeeThe Secretary, or a designee, shall from time to time, but at least annually, meet and consult with the Board on matters relating to the administration of the scenic area.11 So in original. Probably should be capitalized.


(f) Compensation; expensesMembers of the Board shall serve without compensation as such, but the Secretary is authorized to pay, upon vouchers signed by the Chairman, the expenses reasonably incurred by the Board and its members in carrying out their duties under sections 543 to 543h of this title.


(g) VacanciesAny vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.


(h) QuorumA majority of those members appointed shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of all business of the Board.


(i) TerminationThe Board shall terminate ten years from the date of its first meeting.


(Pub. L. 98–425, title III, § 306, Sept. 28, 1984, 98 Stat. 1637.)
