§ 147a. Department of Health and Human Services(a) The Commandant may assist the Secretary of Health and Human Services in providing medical emergency helicopter transportation services to civilians. The Commandant may prescribe conditions, including reimbursement, under which resources may be provided under this section. The following specific limitations apply to assistance provided under this section:(1) Assistance may be provided only in areas where Coast Guard units able to provide the assistance are regularly assigned. Coast Guard units may not be transferred from one area to another to provide the assistance.

(2) Assistance may be provided only to the extent it does not interfere with the performance of the Coast Guard mission.

(3) Providing assistance may not cause an increase in amounts required for the operation of the Coast Guard.


(b) An individual (or the estate of that individual) who is authorized by the Coast Guard to provide a service under a program established under subsection (a) and who is acting within the scope of that individual’s duties is not liable for injury to, or loss of, property or personal injury or death that may be caused incident to providing the service.

(Added Pub. L. 97–295, § 2(6)(A), Oct. 12, 1982, 96 Stat. 1301.)











Historical and Revision Notes


Revised SectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


147a14:141 (note).July 1, 1977, Pub. L. 95–61, § 8, 91 Stat. 260.


In subsection (a), the words “Secretary of Health and Human Services” are substituted for “Department of Health, Education, and Welfare” because of 20:3508(b) and because the responsibility is in the head of the Department. The word “may” is substituted for “is authorized to” for clarity. The word “conditions” is substituted for “terms and conditions” because it is inclusive. The words “deems appropriate” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “The following . . . limitations apply” are substituted for “shall be subject to the following . . . limitations” for clarity.

Similar ProvisionsSimilar provisions were contained in section 8 of Pub. L. 95–61 which was formerly set out as a note under section 141 of this title.


