“SEC. 104. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF THE TRUST.“(a) Overall Requirements of the Trust.—The Trust shall manage the leasing, maintenance, rehabilitation, repair and improvement of property within the Presidio under its administrative jurisdiction using the authorities provided in this section, which shall be exercised in accordance with the purposes set forth in section 1 of the Act entitled ‘An Act to establish the Golden Gate National Recreation Area in the State of California, and for other purposes’, approved October 27, 1972 (Public Law 92–589; 86 Stat. 1299; 16 U.S.C. 460bb), and in accordance with the general objectives of the General Management Plan (hereinafter referred to as the ‘management plan’) approved for the Presidio.

“(b) Authorities.—The Trust may participate in the development of programs and activities at the properties transferred to the Trust, except that the Trust shall have the authority to negotiate and enter into such agreements, leases, contracts and other arrangements with any person, firm, association, organization, corporation or governmental entity, including, without limitation, entities of Federal, State and local governments as are necessary and appropriate to carry out its authorized activities. The National Park Service or any other Federal agency is authorized to enter into agreements, leases, contracts and other arrangements with the Presidio Trust which are necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this title. Any such agreement may be entered into without regard to section 321 of the Act of June 30, 1932 (40 U.S.C. 303b) [now 40 U.S.C. 1302]. The Trust may use alternative means of dispute resolution authorized under subchapter IV of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code (5 U.S.C. 571 et seq.). The Trust shall establish procedures for lease agreements and other agreements for use and occupancy of Presidio facilities, including a requirement that in entering into such agreements the Trust shall obtain reasonable competition. The Trust may not dispose of or convey fee title to any real property transferred to it under this title. Federal laws and regulations governing procurement by Federal agencies shall not apply to the Trust, with the exception of laws and regulations related to Federal government contracts governing working conditions and wage rates, including the provisions of sections 276a–276a–6 of title 40, United States Code (Davis-Bacon Act) [now 40 U.S.C. 3141–3144, 3146, and 3147], and any civil rights provisions otherwise applicable thereto. The Trust, in consultation with the Administrator of Federal Procurement Policy, shall establish and promulgate procedures applicable to the Trust’s procurement of goods and services including, but not limited to, the award of contracts on the basis of contractor qualifications, price, commercially reasonable buying practices, and reasonable competition. The Trust is authorized to use funds available to the Trust to purchase insurance and for reasonable reception and representation expenses, including membership dues, business cards and business related meal expenditures.

“(c) Management Program.—The Trust shall develop a comprehensive program for management of those lands and facilities within the Presidio which are transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the Trust. Such program shall be designed to reduce expenditures by the National Park Service and increase revenues to the Federal Government to the maximum extent possible. In carrying out this program, the Trust shall be treated as a successor in interest to the National Park Service with respect to compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act [of 1969] [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.] and other environmental compliance statutes. Such program shall consist of—“(1) demolition of structures which in the opinion of the Trust, cannot be cost-effectively rehabilitated, and which are identified in the management plan for demolition,

“(2) evaluation for possible demolition or replacement those buildings identified as categories 2 through 5 in the Presidio of San Francisco Historic Landmark District Historic American Buildings Survey Report, dated 1985,

“(3) new construction limited to replacement of existing structures of similar size in existing areas of development, and

“(4) examination of a full range of reasonable options for carrying out routine administrative and facility management programs.


The Trust shall consult with the Secretary in the preparation of this program.

“(d) Financial Authorities.—(1) To augment or encourage the use of non-Federal funds to finance capital improvements on Presidio properties transferred to its jurisdiction, the Trust, in addition to its other authorities, shall have the following authorities subject to the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.):“(A) The authority to guarantee any lender against loss of principal or interest on any loan: Provided, That—“(i) the terms of the guarantee are approved by the Secretary of the Treasury;

“(ii) adequate subsidy budget authority is provided in advance in appropriations Acts; and

“(iii) such guarantees are structured so as to minimize potential cost to the Federal Government. No loan guarantee under this title shall cover more than 75 percent of the unpaid balance of the loan. The Trust may collect a fee sufficient to cover its costs in connection with each loan guaranteed under this title. The authority to enter into any such loan guarantee agreement shall expire at the end of 15 years after the date of enactment of this title [Nov. 12, 1996].


“(B) The authority, subject to appropriations, to make loans to the occupants of property managed by the Trust for the preservation, restoration, maintenance, or repair of such property.


“(2) The Trust shall also have the authority to issue obligations to the Secretary of the Treasury, but only if the Secretary of the Treasury agrees to purchase such obligations to the extent authorized in advance in appropriations acts. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to use as a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under such chapter are extended to include any purchase of such notes or obligations acquired by the Secretary of the Treasury under this subsection. Obligations issued under this subparagraph shall be in such forms and denominations, bearing such maturities, and subject to such terms and conditions, including a review of the creditworthiness of the loan and establishment of a repayment schedule, as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and shall bear interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration current market yields on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities. No funds appropriated to the Trust may be used for repayment of principal or interest on, or redemption of, obligations issued under this paragraph.

“(3) The aggregate amount of obligations issued under paragraph (2) of this subsection which are outstanding at any one time may not exceed $150,000,000.


“(e) Donations.—The Trust may solicit and accept donations of funds, property, supplies, or services from individuals, foundations, corporations, and other private or public entities for the purpose of carrying out its duties. The Trust is encouraged to maintain a liaison with the Golden Gate National Park Association.

“(f) Public Agency.—The Trust shall be deemed to be a public agency for purposes of entering into joint exercise of powers agreements pursuant to California government code section 6500 and related provisions of that Code.

“(g) Financial Management.—Notwithstanding section 1341 of title 31 of the United States Code, all proceeds and other revenues received by the Trust shall be retained by the Trust. Those proceeds shall be available, without further appropriation, to the Trust for the administration, preservation, restoration, operation and maintenance, improvement, repair and related expenses incurred with respect to Presidio properties under its administrative jurisdiction. The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest, at the direction of the Trust, such excess moneys that the Trust determines are not required to meet current withdrawals. Such investment shall be in public debt securities with maturities suitable to the needs of the Trust and bearing interest at rates determined by the Secretary of the Treasury taking into consideration the current average yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturity.

“(h) Suits.—The Trust may sue and be sued in its own name to the same extent as the Federal Government. Litigation arising out of the activities of the Trust shall be conducted by the Attorney General; except that the Trust may retain private attorneys to provide advice and counsel. The District Court for the Northern District of California shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any suit filed against the Trust.

“(i) Memorandum of Agreement.—The Trust shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the Secretary, acting through the Chief of the United States Park Police, for the conduct of law enforcement activities and services within those portions of the Presidio transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the Trust.

“(j) Bylaws, Rules, and Regulations.—The Trust may adopt, amend, repeal, and enforce bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner in which its business may be conducted and the powers vested in it may be exercised, including rules and regulations for the use and management of the property under the Trust’s jurisdiction. The Trust is authorized, in consultation with the Secretary, to adopt and to enforce those rules and regulations that are applicable to the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and that may be necessary and appropriate to carry out its duties and responsibilities under this title. The Trust shall give notice of the adoption of such rules and regulations by publication in the Federal Register.

“(k) Direct Negotiations.—For the purpose of compliance with applicable laws and regulations concerning properties transferred to the Trust by the Secretary, the Trust shall negotiate directly with regulatory authorities.

“(l) Insurance.—The Trust shall require that all leaseholders and contractors procure proper insurance against any loss in connection with properties under lease or contract, or the authorized activities granted in such lease or contract, as is reasonable and customary.

“(m) Building Code Compliance.—The Trust shall bring all properties under its administrative jurisdiction into compliance with Federal building codes and regulations appropriate to use and occupancy within 10 years after the enactment of this title [Nov. 12, 1996] to the extent practicable.

“(n) Leasing.—In managing and leasing the properties transferred to it, the Trust shall consider the extent to which prospective tenants contribute to the implementation of the general objectives of the General Management Plan for the Presidio and to the reduction of cost to the Federal Government. The Trust shall give priority to the following categories of tenants: Tenants that enhance the financial viability of the Presidio and tenants that facilitate the cost-effective preservation of historic buildings through their reuse of such buildings.

“(o) Reversion.—If, at the expiration of 15 years, the Trust has not accomplished the goals and objectives of the plan required in section 105(b) of this title, then all property under the administrative jurisdiction of the Trust pursuant to section 103(b) of this title shall be transferred to the Administrator of the General Services Administration to be disposed of in accordance with the procedures outlined in the Defense Authorization Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 1809) [probably means part A of title XXIX of div. B of Pub. L. 101–510, Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1808, set out as a note under section 2687 of Title 10, Armed Forces], and any real property so transferred shall be deleted from the boundary of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area. In the event of such transfer, the terms and conditions of all agreements and loans regarding such lands and facilities entered into by the Trust shall be binding on any successor in interest.

“(p) Exclusive Rights to Name and Insignia.—The Trust shall have the sole and exclusive right to use the words ‘Presidio Trust’ and any seal, emblem, or other insignia adopted by its Board of Directors. Without express written authority of the Trust, no person may use the words ‘Presidio Trust’, or any combination or variation of those words alone or with other words, as the name under which that person shall do or purport to do business, for the purpose of trade, or by way of advertisement, or in any manner that may falsely suggest any connection with the Trust.

