“SEC. 4495. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.“(a) In General.—(1) Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated in section 301 [106 Stat. 2360] for Defense Agencies, $75,000,000 shall be made available for the purpose of making payments to employers under this subtitle. Of the amounts made available pursuant to section 1302(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 [Pub. L. 103–160, 107 Stat. 1783], $25,000,000 shall be made available for the purpose of making payments to employers under this subtitle. The Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Labor shall submit an estimate to the Secretary of the amount needed to carry out any agreement entered into under section 4484(a), including administrative costs referred to in paragraph (3). Such agreements shall include administrative procedures to ensure the prompt and timely payments to employers by the implementing official.

“(2) Amounts made available pursuant to this section for a fiscal year shall remain available until the end of the second fiscal year following the fiscal year in which such amounts were appropriated.

“(3) Of the amounts made available pursuant to this section for a fiscal year, six percent of such amounts may be used for the purpose of administering this subtitle, including reimbursing expenses incurred.


“(b) Availability of Deobligated Funds.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds made available pursuant to this section for a fiscal year which are obligated for the purpose of making payments under section 4487 on behalf of an eligible person (including funds so obligated which previously had been obligated for such purpose on behalf of another eligible person and were thereafter deobligated) and are later deobligated shall immediately upon deobligation become available to the implementing official for obligation for such purpose. The further obligation of such funds by such official for such purpose shall not be delayed, directly or indirectly, in any manner by any officer or employee in the executive branch.

