§ 460jjj–1. Administration(a) In generalThe Secretary shall administer the recreation area in accordance with this subchapter and the laws, rules, and regulations applicable to National Forest System lands in a manner that will further the purposes of the recreation area. Management of the natural resources within the recreation area shall be permitted only to the extent that such management is compatible with and does not impair the purposes for which the recreation area is established. Recreational activities within the recreation area shall include (but not be limited to) hiking, camping, hunting, fishing, skiing, backpacking, rock climbing, and swimming.


(b) Management planThe Secretary shall, no later than 5 years after October 12, 1993, develop a management plan for the recreation area, as an amendment to the Santa Fe National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan, to reflect the establishment of the recreation area and to conform to the provisions of this subchapter. Nothing in this subchapter shall require the Secretary to revise the Santa Fe Forest Land and Resource Management Plan pursuant to section 1604 of this title. During development of the management plan for the recreation area, the Secretary shall study newly designated land within the recreation area, and adjacent national forest land.


(c) Cultural resourcesIn administering the recreation area, the Secretary shall give particular emphasis to the preservation, stabilization, and protection of cultural resources located within the recreation area in furtherance of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 [16 U.S.C. 470aa et seq.], the National Historic Preservation Act [16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.], and the Act of August 11, 1978 [42 U.S.C. 1996, 1996a] (commonly referred to as the “American Indian Religious Freedom Act”).


(d) Native Americans(1) In recognition of the historic use of portions of the recreation area by Indian peoples for traditional cultural and customary uses, the Secretary shall, subject to the provisions of subsection (n) of this section in consultation with local tribal leaders, ensure the protection of religious and cultural sites and provide access from time to time to those sites by Indian peoples for traditional cultural and customary uses. Such access shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of the Act of August 11, 1978 [42 U.S.C. 1996, 1996a] (commonly referred to as the “American Indian Religious Freedom Act”). The Secretary, in accordance with such Act, upon request of an Indian tribe or pueblo, may from time to time temporarily close to general public use one or more specific portions of the recreational area in order to protect traditional and customary uses in such portions by Indian peoples.

(2) In preparing and implementing management plans for the recreation area, the Secretary shall request that the Governor of the Pueblo of Jemez and the chief executive officers of other appropriate Indian tribes and pueblos make recommendations on methods of—(A) assuring access to religious and cultural sites;

(B) enhancing the privacy and continuity of traditional cultural and religious activities in the recreation area; and

(C) protecting traditional cultural and religious sites in the recreation area.



(e) Wildlife resourcesIn administering the recreation area, the Secretary shall give particular emphasis to the conservation and protection of wildlife resources, including species listed as sensitive by the Forest Service, within the recreation area and shall comply with applicable Federal and State laws relating to wildlife, including the Endangered Species Act of 1973 [16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.].


(f) HuntingThe Secretary shall permit hunting and fishing on lands and waters under the jurisdiction of the Secretary within the recreation area in accordance with applicable Federal and State law.


(g) Timber harvestingThe Secretary may permit timber harvesting in the recreation area for commercial purposes, including (but not limited to) vigas, latillas, the gathering of fuelwood, and for purposes of public safety, recreation, wildlife, and administration, insofar as the harvesting is compatible with the purposes of the recreation area. Trees damaged or downed due to fire, disease, or insect infestation may be utilized, salvaged, or removed from the recreation area as authorized by the Secretary in furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to affect the timber sales under contract on October 12, 1993. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to effect the Los Griegos timber sale in the Los Griegos Diversity Unit number 0322 as shown on the West Half Diversity Unit map of the Santa Fe National Forest dated November 1991; except that the Secretary shall manage such sale using uneven aged management including the individual tree selection method.


(h) GrazingThe Secretary may permit grazing within the recreation area in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary. Riparian areas shall be managed in such a manner as to protect their important resource values.


(i) Transportation plan(1) Within 1 year after October 12, 1993, the Secretary shall prepare a transportation plan that provides for the most efficient use of roads and trails to accomplish the purposes of this subchapter. The plan shall provide for a comprehensive trails system that provides for dispersed recreation while minimizing impact on significant archaeological and religious sites.

(2) The Secretary shall construct, maintain, and close roads within the recreation area after consultation with local tribal leaders and only in accordance with such plan.


(j) Recreational facilitiesThe Secretary shall provide for recreational facilities within the recreation area. Such facilities shall be constructed so as to minimize impacts on the scenic beauty, the natural character, and the archaeological and religious sites of the recreation area.


(k) Visitor facilitiesThe Secretary shall establish a visitor center and interpretive facilities in or near the recreation area for the purpose of providing for education relating to the interpretation of cultural and natural resources of the recreation area.


(l) Power transmission linesIn accordance with Federal and State laws and regulations, the Secretary may permit a utility corridor for high power electric transmission lines within the recreation area only when the Secretary determines that—(1) there is not a feasible alternative for the location of such corridor;

(2) damage to the recreational and scenic quality and to the archaeological and religious sites of the recreation area will not be significant;

(3) it is in the public interest that such corridor be located in the recreation area; and

(4) a plan to minimize harm to the resources of the recreation area has been developed.


(m) Scientific investigationsThe Secretary may permit scientific investigations within the recreation area upon the Secretary’s determination that such investigations are in the public interest and are compatible with the purposes of this subchapter.


(n) Resource protectionThe Secretary may designate zones where, and establish periods when, any activity otherwise permitted in the recreation area will not be permitted for reasons of public safety, administration, fish and wildlife management, protection of archaeological or cultural resources, or public use and enjoyment. Except in emergencies such designations by the Secretary shall be put into effect only after consultation with the appropriate State agencies, appropriate tribal leaders, and other affected parties.


(Pub. L. 103–104, § 2, Oct. 12, 1993, 107 Stat. 1025.)


References in TextThe Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979, referred to in subsec. (c), is Pub. L. 96–95, Oct. 31, 1979, 93 Stat. 721, which is classified generally to chapter 1B (§ 470aa et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 470aa of this title and Tables.
The National Historic Preservation Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is Pub. L. 89–665, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 470 et seq.) of chapter 1A of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 470 of this title and Tables.
The American Indian Religious Freedom Act, referred to in subsecs. (c) and (d)(1), is Pub. L. 95–341, Aug. 11, 1978, 92 Stat. 469, as amended, which is classified to sections 1996 and 1996a of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1996 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Endangered Species Act of 1973, referred to in subsec. (e), is Pub. L. 93–205, Dec. 28, 1973, 87 Stat. 884, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1531 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1531 of this title and Tables.


