§ 470j. Functions of Council; annual report to President and Congress; recommendations(a) DutiesThe Council shall—(1) advise the President and the Congress on matters relating to historic preservation; recommend measures to coordinate activities of Federal, State, and local agencies and private institutions and individuals relating to historic preservation; and advise on the dissemination of information pertaining to such activities;

(2) encourage, in cooperation with the National Trust for Historic Preservation and appropriate private agencies, public interest and participation in historic preservation;

(3) recommend the conduct of studies in such areas as the adequacy of legislative and administrative statutes and regulations pertaining to historic preservation activities of State and local governments and the effects of tax policies at all levels of government on historic preservation;

(4) advise as to guidelines for the assistance of State and local governments in drafting legislation relating to historic preservation;

(5) encourage, in cooperation with appropriate public and private agencies and institutions, training and education in the field of historic preservation;

(6) review the policies and programs of Federal agencies and recommend to such agencies methods to improve the effectiveness, coordination, and consistency of those policies and programs with the policies and programs carried out under this subchapter; and

(7) inform and educate Federal agencies, State and local governments, Indian tribes, other nations and international organizations and private groups and individuals as to the Council’s authorized activities.


(b) Annual reportThe Council shall submit annually a comprehensive report of its activities and the results of its studies to the President and the Congress and shall from time to time submit such additional and special reports as it deems advisable. Each report shall propose such legislative enactments and other actions as, in the judgment of the Council, are necessary and appropriate to carry out its recommendations and shall provide the Council’s assessment of current and emerging problems in the field of historic preservation and an evaluation of the effectiveness of the programs of Federal agencies, State and local governments, and the private sector in carrying out the purposes of this subchapter.


(Pub. L. 89–665, title II, § 202, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 918; Pub. L. 96–515, title III, § 301(g), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2999.)

Amendments1980—Subsec. (a)(6), (7). Pub. L. 96–515, § 301(g)(1), added pars. (6) and (7).
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 96–515, § 301(g)(2), inserted provision requiring in the Council’s report an assessment of current and emerging problems in the field of historic preservation and an evaluation of the effectiveness of the programs of Federal agencies, State and local governments, and the private sector.

Termination of Reporting RequirementsFor termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec. (b) of this section relating to submittal to Congress, annually, of a comprehensive report of activities and results of studies, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66, as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and page 154 of House Document No. 103–7.

Relationship of Federal Tax Laws to Historic Preservation; Report to President and CongressSection 503 of Pub. L. 96–515 directed the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation to submit a report, within one year of Dec. 12, 1980, to the President and the Congress on Federal tax laws relating to historic preservation or affecting in any manner historic preservation.


