§ 631. Delegation of powers by the Secretary
The Secretary is authorized to confer or impose upon the Commandant any of the rights, privileges, powers, or duties, in respect to the administration of the Coast Guard, vested in or imposed upon the Secretary by this title or other provisions of law.
(Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393, 63 Stat. 544; Pub. L. 94–546, § 1(33), Oct. 18, 1976, 90 Stat. 2521.)

Historical and Revision NotesThis section authorizes the Secretary to delegate to the Commandant any of the authority granted to him in respect to the administration of the Coast Guard. Such power to delegate is granted by other statutes to the heads of many of the executive departments. 81st Congress, House Report No. 557.

Amendments1976—Pub. L. 94–546 substituted “Secretary” for “Secretary of the Treasury” wherever appearing and substituted “Commandant” for “Commandant of the Coast Guard”.

Administrative Advisory Committees; Solicitation of Nominations for Membership; Publication in Federal Register; Disclosures to Congress; Compensation and Travel ExpensesPub. L. 97–322, title I, § 118(e), Oct. 15, 1982, 96 Stat. 1587, provided that:
“(1) The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall, not less often than once a year, publish notice in the Federal Register for solicitation of nominations for membership on any advisory committee established administratively for the purpose of giving advice and recommendations to such Secretary or the Commandant of the Coast Guard with respect to functions of the Coast Guard.

“(2) Any advisory committee described in paragraph (1) of this subsection is authorized to make available to Congress any information, advice, and recommendations which the committee is authorized to give to the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating or the Commandant of the Coast Guard.

“(3) Members of any advisory committee described in paragraph (1) of this subsection who are not officers or employees of the United States shall serve without pay and members of any such committee who are officers or employees of the United States shall receive no additional pay on account of their service on such committee. While away from their homes or regular places of business, members of any such committee may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.”





