“SEC. 2. FINDINGS.“The Congress finds the following:“(1) The African Growth and Opportunity Act [19 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.] (in this section and section 3 referred to as ‘the Act’) has helped to spur economic growth and bolster economic reforms in the countries of sub-Saharan Africa and has fostered stronger economic ties between the countries of sub-Saharan Africa and the United States; as a result, exports from the United States to sub-Saharan Africa reached record levels after the enactment of the Act, while exports from sub-Saharan Africa to the United States have increased considerably.

“(2) The Act’s eligibility requirements have reinforced democratic values and the rule of law, and have strengthened adherence to internationally recognized worker rights in eligible sub-Saharan African countries.

“(3) The Act has helped to bring about substantial increases in foreign investment in sub-Saharan Africa, especially in the textile and apparel sectors, where tens of thousands of new jobs have been created.

“(4) As a result of the Agreement on Textiles and Apparel of the World Trade Organization, under which quotas maintained by WTO member countries on textile and apparel products end on January 1, 2005, sub-Saharan Africa’s textile and apparel industry will be severely challenged by countries whose industries are more developed and have greater capacity, economies of scale, and better infrastructure.

“(5) The underdeveloped physical and financial infrastructure in sub-Saharan Africa continues to discourage investment in the region.

“(6) Regional integration establishes a foundation on which sub-Saharan African countries can coordinate and pursue policies grounded in African interests and history to achieve sustainable development.

“(7) Expanded trade because of the Act has improved fundamental economic conditions within sub-Saharan Africa. The Act has helped to create jobs in the poorest region of the world, and most sub-Saharan African countries have sought to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the Act.

“(8) Agricultural biotechnology holds promise for helping solve global food security and human health crises in Africa and, according to recent studies, has made contributions to the protection of the environment by reducing the application of pesticides, reducing soil erosion, and creating an environment more hospitable to wildlife.

“(9) (A) One of the greatest challenges facing African countries continues to be the HIV/AIDS epidemic, which has infected as many as one out of every four people in some countries, creating tremendous social, political, and economic costs. African countries need continued United States financial and technical assistance to combat this epidemic.

“(B) More awareness and involvement by governments are necessary. Countries like Uganda, recognizing the threat of HIV/AIDS, have boldly attacked it through a combination of education, public awareness, enhanced medical infrastructure and resources, and greater access to medical treatment. An effective HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment strategy involves all of these steps.


“(10) African countries continue to need trade capacity assistance to establish viable economic capacity, a well-grounded rule of law, and efficient government practices.

