§ 450rr–4. International agreement(a) NegotiationsThe Secretary is directed to enter into negotiations with the United Kingdom, France, Canada, and other interested nations to develop an international agreement which provides for—(1) the designation of the R.M.S. Titanic as an international maritime memorial; and

(2) research on, exploration of, and if appropriate, salvage of the R.M.S. Titanic consistent with the international guidelines developed pursuant to section 450rr–3 of this title and the purposes of sections 450rr to 450rr–6 of this title.


(b) Consultation with AdministratorIn carrying out the requirements of subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator, who shall provide research and technical assistance to the Secretary.


(c) Reports to Congressional committees on progress of negotiations and consultationsThe Secretary and the Administrator shall report semiannually to the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries and the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation in the Senate on the progress of the negotiations and consultations.


(d) Notification of agreement and recommendations to Congressional committeesUpon adoption of an international agreement as described in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall provide notification of the agreement and recommendations for legislation to implement the agreement to the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries and the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation in the Senate.


(Pub. L. 99–513, § 6, Oct. 21, 1986, 100 Stat. 2083.)


Abolition of House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives abolished and its jurisdiction transferred by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995. For treatment of references to Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, see section 1(b)(3) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress.


