§ 657p. Outreach regarding health insurance options available to children(a) DefinitionsIn this section—(1) the terms “Administration” and “Administrator” means the Small Business Administration and the Administrator thereof, respectively;

(2) the term “certified development company” means a development company participating in the program under title V of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 695 et seq.);

(3) the term “Medicaid program” means the program established under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.);

(4) the term “Service Corps of Retired Executives” means the Service Corps of Retired Executives authorized by section 637(b)(1) of this title;

(5) the term “small business concern” has the meaning given that term in section 632 of this title;

(6) the term “small business development center” means a small business development center described in section 648 of this title;

(7) the term “State” has the meaning given that term for purposes of title XXI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.);

(8) the term “State Children’s Health Insurance Program” means the State Children’s Health Insurance Program established under title XXI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.);

(9) the term “task force” means the task force established under subsection (b)(1); and

(10) the term “women’s business center” means a women’s business center described in section 656 of this title.


(b) Establishment of task force(1) EstablishmentThere is established a task force to conduct a nationwide campaign of education and outreach for small business concerns regarding the availability of coverage for children through private insurance options, the Medicaid program, and the State Children’s Health Insurance Program.


(2) MembershipThe task force shall consist of the Administrator, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of the Treasury.


(3) ResponsibilitiesThe campaign conducted under this subsection shall include—(A) efforts to educate the owners of small business concerns about the value of health coverage for children;

(B) information regarding options available to the owners and employees of small business concerns to make insurance more affordable, including Federal and State tax deductions and credits for health care-related expenses and health insurance expenses and Federal tax exclusion for health insurance options available under employer-sponsored cafeteria plans under section 125 of title 26;

(C) efforts to educate the owners of small business concerns about assistance available through public programs; and

(D) efforts to educate the owners and employees of small business concerns regarding the availability of the hotline operated as part of the Insure Kids Now program of the Department of Health and Human Services.


(4) ImplementationIn carrying out this subsection, the task force may—(A) use any business partner of the Administration, including—(i) a small business development center;

(ii) a certified development company;

(iii) a women’s business center; and

(iv) the Service Corps of Retired Executives;


(B) enter into—(i) a memorandum of understanding with a chamber of commerce; and

(ii) a partnership with any appropriate small business concern or health advocacy group; and


(C) designate outreach programs at regional offices of the Department of Health and Human Services to work with district offices of the Administration.


(5) WebsiteThe Administrator shall ensure that links to information on the eligibility and enrollment requirements for the Medicaid program and State Children’s Health Insurance Program of each State are prominently displayed on the website of the Administration.


(6) Report(A) In generalNot later than 2 years after February 4, 2009, and every 2 years thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report on the status of the nationwide campaign conducted under paragraph (1).


(B) ContentsEach report submitted under subparagraph (A) shall include a status update on all efforts made to educate owners and employees of small business concerns on options for providing health insurance for children through public and private alternatives.




(Pub. L. 111–3, title VI, § 621, Feb. 4, 2009, 123 Stat. 104.)


References in TextThe Small Business Investment Act of 1958, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is Pub. L. 85–699, Aug. 21, 1958, 72 Stat. 689. Title V of the Act is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 695 et seq.) of chapter 14B of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 661 of this title and Tables.
The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(3), (7), (8), is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620. Titles XIX and XXI of the Act are classified generally to subchapters XIX (§ 1396 et seq.) and XXI (§ 1397aa et seq.), respectively, of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1305 of Title 42 and Tables.

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009, and not as part of the Small Business Act which comprises this chapter.

Effective DateSection effective Apr. 1, 2009, and applicable to child health assistance and medical assistance provided on or after that date, with certain exceptions, see section 3 of Pub. L. 111–3, set out as a note under section 1396 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.


