§ 460nnn–24. Land acquisition authority(a) Acquisition(1) Acquisition authorizedIn addition to the land acquisitions authorized by part F of this subchapter, the Secretary may acquire other non-Federal lands and interests in lands located within the boundaries of the Cooperative Management and Protection Area or the Wilderness Area.


(2) Acquisition methodsLands may be acquired under this subsection only by voluntary exchange, donation, or purchase from willing sellers.



(b) Treatment of acquired lands(1) In generalSubject to paragraphs (2) and (3), lands or interests in lands acquired under subsection (a) of this section or part F of this subchapter that are located within the boundaries of the Cooperative Management and Protection Area shall—(A) become part of the Cooperative Management and Protection Area; and

(B) be managed pursuant to the laws applicable to the Cooperative Management and Protection Area.


(2) Lands within Wilderness AreaIf lands or interests in lands acquired under subsection (a) of this section or part F of this subchapter are within the boundaries of the Wilderness Area, the acquired lands or interests in lands shall—(A) become part of the Wilderness Area; and

(B) be managed pursuant to part B of this subchapter and the other laws applicable to the Wilderness Area.


(3) Lands within wilderness study areaIf the lands or interests in lands acquired under subsection (a) of this section or part F of this subchapter are within the boundaries of a wilderness study area, the acquired lands or interests in lands shall—(A) become part of that wilderness study area; and

(B) be managed pursuant to the laws applicable to that wilderness study area.



(c) AppraisalIn appraising non-Federal land, development rights, or conservation easements for possible acquisition under this section or section 460nnn–42 of this title, the Secretary shall disregard any adverse impacts on values resulting from the designation of the Cooperative Management and Protection Area or the Wilderness Area.


(Pub. L. 106–399, title I, § 114, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1662.)
