§ 1154. Assistance to eligible members and former members to obtain employment as teachers: Troops-to-Teachers Program(a) Definitions.—In this section:(1) Charter school.—The term “charter school” has the meaning given that term in section 5210(1) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7221i(1)).

(2) Eligible school.—The term “eligible school” means—(A) a public school, including a charter school, at which—(i) at least 30 percent of the students enrolled in the school are from families with incomes below 185 percent of poverty level (as defined by the Office of Management and Budget and revised at least annually in accordance with section 9(b)(1) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(b)(1)) applicable to a family of the size involved; or

(ii) at least 13 percent of the students enrolled in the school qualify for assistance under part B of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C.1411 11 So in original. et seq.); or


(B) a Bureau-funded school as defined in section 1141(3) of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2021(3)).


(3) High-need school.—The term “high-need school” means—(A) an elementary or middle school in which at least 50 percent of the enrolled students are children from low-income families, based on the number of children eligible for free and reduced priced lunches under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), the number of children in families receiving assistance under the State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the number of children eligible to receive medical assistance under the Medicaid program, or a composite of these indicators;

(B) a high school in which at least 40 percent of enrolled students are children from low-income families, which may be calculated using comparable data from feeder schools; or

(C) a school that is in a local educational agency that is eligible under section 6211(b) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7345(b)).


(4) Member of the armed forces.—The term “member of the armed forces” includes a retired or former member of the armed forces.

(5) Participant.—The term “participant” means an eligible member of the armed forces selected to participate in the Program.

(6) Program.—The term “Program” means the Troops-to-Teachers Program authorized by this section.

(7) Secretary.—The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Defense.

(8) Additional terms.—The terms “elementary school”, “local educational agency”, “secondary school”, and “State” have the meanings given those terms in section 9101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).


(b) Program Authorization.—The Secretary of Defense may carry out a Troops-to-Teachers Program—(1) to assist eligible members of the armed forces described in subsection (d) to meet the requirements necessary to become a teacher in a school described in paragraph (2); and

(2) to facilitate the employment of such members—(A) by local educational agencies or charter schools that the Secretary of Education identifies as—(i) receiving grants under part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.) as a result of having within their jurisdictions concentrations of children from low-income families; or

(ii) experiencing a shortage of teachers, in particular a shortage of science, mathematics, special education, foreign language, or career or technical teachers; and


(B) in elementary schools or secondary schools, or as career or technical teachers.



(c) Counseling and Referral Services.—The Secretary may provide counseling and referral services to members of the armed forces who do not meet the eligibility criteria described in subsection (d), including the education qualification requirements under paragraph (3)(B) of such subsection.

(d) Eligibility and Application Process.—(1) Eligible members.—The following members of the armed forces are eligible for selection to participate in the Program:(A) Any member who—(i) on or after October 1, 1999, becomes entitled to retired or retainer pay under this title or title 14;

(ii) has an approved date of retirement that is within one year after the date on which the member submits an application to participate in the Program; or

(iii) has been transferred to the Retired Reserve.


(B) Any member who, on or after January 8, 2002—(i)(I) is separated or released from active duty after four or more years of continuous active duty immediately before the separation or release; or

(II) has completed a total of at least six years of active duty service, six years of service computed under section 12732 of this title, or six years of any combination of such service; and


(ii) executes a reserve commitment agreement for a period of not less than three years under paragraph (5)(B).


(C) Any member who, on or after January 8, 2002, is retired or separated for physical disability under chapter 61 of this title.


(2) Submission of applications.—(A) Selection of eligible members of the armed forces to participate in the Program shall be made on the basis of applications submitted to the Secretary within the time periods specified in subparagraph (B). An application shall be in such form and contain such information as the Secretary may require.

(B) In the case of an eligible member of the armed forces described in subparagraph (A)(i), (B), or (C) of paragraph (1), an application shall be considered to be submitted on a timely basis if the application is submitted not later than three years after the date on which the member is retired, separated, or released from active duty, whichever applies to the member.


(3) Selection criteria; educational background requirements; honorable service requirement.—(A) The Secretary shall prescribe the criteria to be used to select eligible members of the armed forces to participate in the Program.

(B) If a member of the armed forces is applying for the Program to receive assistance for placement as an elementary school or secondary school teacher, the Secretary shall require the member to have received a baccalaureate or advanced degree from an accredited institution of higher education.

(C) If a member of the armed forces is applying for the Program to receive assistance for placement as a career or technical teacher, the Secretary shall require the member—(i) to have received the equivalent of one year of college from an accredited institution of higher education or the equivalent in military education and training as certified by the Department of Defense; or

(ii) to otherwise meet the certification or licensing requirements for a career or technical teacher in the State in which the member seeks assistance for placement under the Program.


(D) A member of the armed forces is eligible to participate in the Program only if the member’s last period of service in the armed forces was honorable, as characterized by the Secretary concerned. A member selected to participate in the Program before the retirement of the member or the separation or release of the member from active duty may continue to participate in the Program after the retirement, separation, or release only if the member’s last period of service is characterized as honorable by the Secretary concerned.


(4) Selection priorities.—In selecting eligible members of the armed forces to receive assistance under the Program, the Secretary—(A) shall give priority to members who—(i) have educational or military experience in science, mathematics, special education, foreign language, or career or technical subjects; and

(ii) agree to seek employment as science, mathematics, foreign language, or special education teachers in elementary schools or secondary schools or in other schools under the jurisdiction of a local educational agency; and


(B) may give priority to members who agree to seek employment in a high-need school.


(5) Other conditions on selection.—(A) Subject to subsection (i), the Secretary may not select an eligible member of the armed forces to participate in the Program and receive financial assistance unless the Secretary has sufficient appropriations for the Program available at the time of the selection to satisfy the obligations to be incurred by the United States under subsection (e) with respect to the member.

(B) The Secretary may not select an eligible member of the armed forces described in paragraph (1)(B)(i) to participate in the Program and receive financial assistance under subsection (e) unless the member executes a written agreement to serve as a member of the Selected Reserve of a reserve component of the armed forces for a period of not less than three years.



(e) Participation Agreement and Financial Assistance.—(1) Participation agreement.—(A) An eligible member of the armed forces selected to participate in the Program under subsection (b) and to receive financial assistance under this subsection shall be required to enter into an agreement with the Secretary in which the member agrees—(i) within such time as the Secretary may require, to meet the requirements necessary to become a teacher in a school described in subsection (b)(2); and

(ii) to accept an offer of full-time employment as an elementary school teacher, secondary school teacher, or career or technical teacher for not less than three school years in an eligible school to begin the school year after obtaining that certification or licensing.


(B) The Secretary may waive the three-year commitment described in subparagraph (A)(ii) for a participant if the Secretary determines such waiver to be appropriate. If the Secretary provides the waiver, the participant shall not be considered to be in violation of the agreement and shall not be required to provide reimbursement under subsection (f), for failure to meet the three-year commitment.


(2) Violation of participation agreement; exceptions.—A participant shall not be considered to be in violation of the participation agreement entered into under paragraph (1) during any period in which the participant—(A) is pursuing a full-time course of study related to the field of teaching at an institution of higher education;

(B) is serving on active duty as a member of the armed forces;

(C) is temporarily totally disabled for a period of time not to exceed three years as established by sworn affidavit of a qualified physician;

(D) is unable to secure employment for a period not to exceed 12 months by reason of the care required by a spouse who is disabled;

(E) is unable to find full-time employment as a teacher in an eligible elementary school or secondary school or as a career or technical teacher for a single period not to exceed 27 months; or

(F) satisfies the provisions of additional reimbursement exceptions that may be prescribed by the Secretary.


(3) Stipend and bonus for participants.—(A) Subject to subparagraph (C), the Secretary may pay to a participant a stipend to cover expenses incurred by the participant to obtain the required educational level, certification, or licensing. Such stipend may not exceed $5,000 and may vary by participant.

(B)(i) Subject to subparagraph (C), the Secretary may pay a bonus to a participant who agrees in the participation agreement under paragraph (1) to accept full-time employment as an elementary school teacher, secondary school teacher, or career or technical teacher for not less than three school years in an eligible school.

(ii) The amount of the bonus may not exceed $5,000, unless the eligible school is a high-need school, in which case the amount of the bonus may not exceed $10,000. Within such limits, the bonus may vary by participant and may take into account the priority placements as determined by the Secretary.


(C)(i) The total number of stipends that may be paid under subparagraph (A) in any fiscal year may not exceed 5,000.

(ii) The total number of bonuses that may be paid under subparagraph (B) in any fiscal year may not exceed 3,000.

(iii) A participant may not receive a stipend under subparagraph (A) if the participant is eligible for benefits under chapter 33 of title 38.

(iv) The combination of a stipend under subparagraph (A) and a bonus under subparagraph (B) for any one participant may not exceed $10,000.



(4) Treatment of stipend and bonus.—A stipend or bonus paid under this subsection to a participant shall be taken into account in determining the eligibility of the participant for Federal student financial assistance provided under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.).


(f) Reimbursement Under Certain Circumstances.—(1) Reimbursement required.—A participant who is paid a stipend or bonus under this subsection shall be subject to the repayment provisions of section 373 of title 37 under the following circumstances:(A) The participant fails to meet the requirements necessary to become a teacher in a school described in subsection (b)(2) or to obtain employment as an elementary school teacher, secondary school teacher, or career or technical teacher as required by the participation agreement under subsection (e)(1).

(B) The participant voluntarily leaves, or is terminated for cause from, employment as an elementary school teacher, secondary school teacher, or career or technical teacher during the three years of required service in violation of the participation agreement.

(C) The participant executed a written agreement with the Secretary concerned under subsection (d)(5)(B) to serve as a member of a reserve component of the armed forces for a period of three years and fails to complete the required term of service.


(2) Amount of reimbursement.—A participant required to reimburse the Secretary for a stipend or bonus paid to the participant under subsection (e) shall pay an amount that bears the same ratio to the amount of the stipend or bonus as the unserved portion of required service bears to the three years of required service.

(3) Interest.—Any amount owed by a participant under this subsection shall bear interest at the rate equal to the highest rate being paid by the United States on the day on which the reimbursement is determined to be due for securities having maturities of 90 days or less and shall accrue from the day on which the participant is first notified of the amount due.

(4) Exceptions to reimbursement requirement.—A participant shall be excused from reimbursement under this subsection if the participant becomes permanently totally disabled as established by sworn affidavit of a qualified physician. The Secretary may also waive the reimbursement in cases of extreme hardship to the participant, as determined by the Secretary.


(g) Relationship to Educational Assistance Under Montgomery GI Bill.—Except as provided in subsection (e)(3)(C)(iii), the receipt by a participant of a stipend or bonus under subsection (e) shall not reduce or otherwise affect the entitlement of the participant to any benefits under chapter 30 or 33 of title 38 or chapter 1606 of this title.

(h) Participation by States.—(1) Discharge of state activities through consortia of states.—The Secretary may permit States participating in the Program to carry out activities authorized for such States under the Program through one or more consortia of such States.

(2) Assistance to states.—(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary may make grants to States participating in the Program, or to consortia of such States, in order to permit such States or consortia of States to operate offices for purposes of recruiting eligible members of the armed forces for participation in the Program and facilitating the employment of participants as elementary school teachers, secondary school teachers, and career or technical teachers.

(B) The total amount of grants made under subparagraph (A) in any fiscal year may not exceed $5,000,000.



(i) Limitation on Total Fiscal-year Obligations.—The total amount obligated by the Secretary under the Program for any fiscal year may not exceed $15,000,000.

(Added Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 541(b)(1), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1729.)


References in TextThe Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(A)(ii), is title VI of Pub. L. 91–230, Apr. 13, 1970, 84 Stat. 175. Part B of the Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 1411 et seq.) of chapter 33 of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1400 of Title 20 and Tables.
The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(3)(A), is act June 4, 1946, ch. 281, 60 Stat. 230, which is classified generally to chapter 13 (§ 1751 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1751 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(3)(A), is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620. Part A of title IV of the Act is classified generally to part A (§ 601 et seq.) of subchapter IV of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1305 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(A)(i), is Pub. L. 89–10, Apr. 11, 1965, 79 Stat. 27. Part A of title I of the Act is classified generally to part A (§ 6311 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 70 of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6301 of Title 20 and Tables.
The Higher Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (e)(4), is Pub. L. 89–329, Nov. 8, 1965, 79 Stat. 1219. Title IV of the Act is classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 1070 et seq.) of chapter 28 of Title 20 and part C (§ 2751 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 34 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1001 of Title 20 and Tables.


Transfer of Functions for Troops-to-Teachers Program
Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title V, § 541(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1728, provided that:
“(1) Transfer.—The responsibility and authority for operation and administration of the Troops-to-Teachers Program in chapter A of subpart 1 of part C of title II of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6671 et seq.) is transferred from the Secretary of Education to the Secretary of Defense.

“(2) Memorandum of agreement.—In connection with the transfer of responsibility and authority for operation and administration of the Troops-to-Teachers Program from the Secretary of Education to the Secretary of Defense under paragraph (1), the Secretaries shall enter into a memorandum of agreement pursuant to which the Secretary of Education will undertake the following:“(A) Disseminate information about the Troops-to-Teachers Program to eligible schools (as defined in subsection (a) of section 1154 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (b)).

“(B) Advise the Department of Defense on how to prepare eligible members of the Armed Forces described in subsection (d) of such section 1154 to become participants in the Program, to meet the requirements necessary to become a teacher in a school described in subsection (b)(2) of such section 1154, and to find post-service employment in an eligible school.

“(C) Advise the Department of Defense on how to identify teacher preparation programs for participants in the Program.

“(D) Inform the Department of Defense of academic subject areas with critical teacher shortages.

“(E) Identify geographic areas with critical teacher shortages, especially in high-need schools (as defined in subsection (a) of such section 1154).


“(3) Effective date.—The transfer of responsibility and authority for operation and administration of the Troops-to-Teachers Program under paragraph (1) shall take effect—“(A) on the first day of the first month beginning more than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 2, 2013]; or

“(B) on such earlier date as the Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Defense may jointly provide.”






