“SEC. 1622. CENTER OF EXCELLENCE IN PREVENTION, DIAGNOSIS, MITIGATION, TREATMENT, AND REHABILITATION OF POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER AND OTHER MENTAL HEALTH CONDITIONS.“(a) In General.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish within the Department of Defense a center of excellence in the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other mental health conditions, including mild, moderate, and severe post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions, to carry out the responsibilities specified in subsection (c).

“(b) Partnerships.—The Secretary shall ensure that the center collaborates to the maximum extent practicable with the National Center on Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder of the Department of Veterans Affairs, institutions of higher education, and other appropriate public and private entities (including international entities) to carry out the responsibilities specified in subsection (c).

“(c) Responsibilities.—The center shall have responsibilities as follows:“(1) To implement the comprehensive plan and strategy for the Department of Defense, required by section 1618 of this Act, for the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions, including research on gender- and ethnic group-specific health needs related to post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions.

“(2) To provide for the development, testing, and dissemination within the Department of best practices for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder.

“(3) To provide guidance for the mental health system of the Department in determining the mental health and neurological health personnel required to provide quality mental health care for members of the Armed Forces with post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions.

“(4) To establish, implement, and oversee a comprehensive program to train mental health and neurological health professionals of the Department in the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions.

“(5) To facilitate advancements in the study of the short-term and long-term psychological effects of post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions.

“(6) To disseminate within the military medical treatment facilities of the Department best practices for training mental health professionals, including neurological health professionals, with respect to post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions.

“(7) To conduct basic science and translational research on post-traumatic stress disorder for the purposes of understanding the etiology of post-traumatic stress disorder and developing preventive interventions and new treatments.

“(8) To develop programs and outreach strategies for families of members of the Armed Forces with post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions in order to mitigate the negative impacts of post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions on such family members and to support the recovery of such members from post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions.

“(9) To conduct research on the mental health needs of families of members of the Armed Forces with post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions and develop protocols to address any needs identified through such research.

“(10) To develop and oversee a long-term plan to increase the number of mental health and neurological health professionals within the Department in order to facilitate the meeting by the Department of the needs of members of the Armed Forces with post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions until their transition to care and treatment from the Department of Veterans Affairs.


