§ 1414. Remote location filing(a) Core entry information(1) In generalA Program participant may file electronically an entry of merchandise with the Customs Service from a location other than the district designated in the entry for examination (hereafter in this section referred to as a “remote location”) if—(A) the Customs Service is satisfied that the participant has the capabilities referred to in paragraph (2)(A) regarding such method of filing; and

(B) the participant elects to file from the remote location.


(2) Requirements(A) In generalIn order to qualify for filing from a remote location, a Program participant must have the capability to provide, on an entry-by-entry basis, for the following:(i) The electronic entry of merchandise.

(ii) The electronic entry summary of required information.

(iii) The electronic transmission of invoice information (when required by the Customs Service).

(iv) The electronic payment of duties, fees, and taxes.

(v) Such other electronic capabilities within the existing or planned components of the Program as the Secretary shall by regulation require.


(B) Restriction on exemption from requirementsThe Customs Service may not permit any exemption or waiver from the requirements established by this section for participation in remote entry filing.



(3) Conditions on filing under this sectionThe Secretary may prohibit a Program participant from participating in remote location filing, and may remove a Program participant from participation in remote location filing, if the participant—(i) fails to meet all the compliance requirements and operational standards of remote location filing; or

(ii) fails to adhere to all applicable laws and regulations.


(4) Alternative filingAny Program participant that is eligible to file entry information electronically from a remote location but chooses not to do so in the case of any entry must file any paper documentation for the entry at the designated location referred to in subsection (d) of this section.



(b) Additional entry information(1) In generalA Program participant that is eligible under subsection (a) of this section to file entry information from a remote location may, if the Customs Service is satisfied that the participant meets the requirements under paragraph (2), also electronically file from the remote location additional information that is required by the Customs Service to be presented before the acceptance of entry summary information and at the time of acceptance of entry summary information.


(2) RequirementsThe Secretary shall publish, and periodically update, a list of those capabilities within the existing and planned components of the Program that a Program participant must have for purposes of this subsection.


(3) Filing of additional information(A) If information electronically acceptableA Program participant that is eligible under paragraph (1) to file additional information from a remote location shall electronically file all such information that the Customs Service can accept electronically.


(B) Alternative filingIf the Customs Service cannot accept additional information electronically, the Program participant shall file the paper documentation with respect to the information at the appropriate filing location.


(C) Appropriate locationFor purposes of subparagraph (B), the “appropriate location” is—(i) before January 1, 1999, a designated location; and

(ii) after December 31, 1998—(I) if the paper documentation is required for release, a designated location; or

(II) if the paper documentation is not required for release, a remote location designated by the Customs Service or a designated location.



(D) OtherA Program participant that is eligible under paragraph (1) to file additional information electronically from a remote location but chooses not to do so must file the paper documentation with respect to the information at a designated location.




(c) Post-entry summary informationA Program participant that is eligible to file electronically entry information under subsection (a) of this section and additional information under subsection (b) of this section from a remote location may file at any remote location designated by the Customs Service any information required by the Customs Service after entry summary.


(d) DefinitionsAs used in this section:(1) The term “designated location” means a customs office located in the customs district designated by the entry filer for purposes of customs examination of the merchandise.

(2) The term “Program participant” means, with respect to an entry of merchandise, any party entitled to make the entry under section 1484(a)(2)(B) of this title.


(June 17, 1930, ch. 497, title IV, § 414, as added Pub. L. 103–182, title VI, § 631(2), Dec. 8, 1993, 107 Stat. 2191.)


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


