§ 12602. Members of Army National Guard of United States and Air National Guard of United States: credit for service as members of National Guard(a) For the purposes of laws providing benefits for members of the Army National Guard of the United States and their dependents and beneficiaries—(1) military training, duty, or other service performed by a member of the Army National Guard of the United States in his status as a member of the Army National Guard for which he is entitled to pay from the United States shall be considered military training, duty, or other service, as the case may be, in Federal service as a Reserve of the Army;

(2) full-time National Guard duty performed by a member of the Army National Guard of the United States shall be considered active duty in Federal service as a Reserve of the Army; and

(3) inactive-duty training performed by a member of the Army National Guard of the United States in his status as a member of the Army National Guard, in accordance with regulations prescribed under section 502 of title 32 or other express provision of law, shall be considered inactive-duty training in Federal service as a Reserve of the Army.


(b) For the purposes of laws providing benefits for members of the Air National Guard of the United States and their dependents and beneficiaries—(1) military training, duty, or other service performed by a member of the Air National Guard of the United States in his status as a member of the Air National Guard for which he is entitled to pay from the United States shall be considered military training, duty, or other service, as the case may be, in Federal service as a Reserve of the Air Force;

(2) full-time National Guard duty performed by a member of the Air National Guard of the United States shall be considered active duty in Federal service as a Reserve of the Air Force; and

(3) inactive-duty training performed by a member of the Air National Guard of the United States in his status as a member of the Air National Guard, in accordance with regulations prescribed under section 502 of title 32 or other express provision of law, shall be considered inactive-duty training in Federal service as a Reserve of the Air Force.


(Added Pub. L. 103–337, div. A, title XVI, § 1662(g)(1), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 2995.)

Prior ProvisionsProvisions similar to those in this section were contained in sections 3686 and 8686 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 103–337, § 1662(g)(2).


