§ 459j–5. Canaveral National Seashore Advisory Commission(a) Establishment; duties; termination; membership; term of members; appointment; ChairmanThere is hereby established the Canaveral National Seashore Advisory Commission which shall consult and advise with the Secretary on all matters of planning, development, and operation of the seashore and shall provide such other advice and assistance as may be useful in carrying out the purposes of sections 459j to 459j–8 of this title. The Commission shall terminate ten years after the date the seashore is established pursuant to sections 459j to 459j–8 of this title, unless extended by the Congress. The Commission shall be composed of six members who shall serve for terms of two years. Members shall be appointed by the Secretary, one of whom he shall designate as Chairman, in the following manner:(1) one member from each county in which the seashore is located, to be selected from recommendations made by the county commission in each county;

(2) two members representing the State of Florida who shall be selected from recommendations made by the Governor of Florida; and

(3) two members representing the general public: Provided, That one member shall be appointed from each county in which the seashore is located.


(b) Meetings; vacanciesAfter the Secretary designates the member to be Chairman, the Commission may meet as often as necessary at the call of the Chairman or of the Secretary, or upon petition of a majority of the members of the Commission. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.


(c) Compensation; payment of expenses upon vouchersMembers of the Commission shall serve without compensation, as such, but the Secretary may pay, upon vouchers signed by the Chairman, the expenses reasonably incurred by the Commission and its members in carrying out their responsibilities under this section.


(Pub. L. 93–626, § 6, Jan. 3, 1975, 88 Stat. 2124; Pub. L. 94–398, Sept. 4, 1976, 90 Stat. 1204.)

Amendments1976—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 94–398 substituted “six members” for “five members” in introductory provisions and substituted “two” for “one” and inserted requirement relating to residency of each member in cl. (3).


