§ 229. Programs for combating terrorism: display of budget information(a) Submission With Annual Budget Justification Documents.—The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress, as a part of the documentation that supports the President’s annual budget for the Department of Defense, a consolidated budget justification display, in classified and unclassified form, that includes all programs and activities of the Department of Defense combating terrorism program.

(b) Requirements for Budget Display.—The budget display under subsection (a) shall include—(1) the amount requested, by appropriation and functional area, for each of the program elements, projects, and initiatives that support the Department of Defense combating terrorism program, with supporting narrative descriptions and rationale for the funding levels requested; and

(2) a summary, to the program element and project level of detail, of estimated expenditures for the current year, funds requested for the budget year, and budget estimates through the completion of the current future-years defense plan for the Department of Defense combating terrorism program.


(c) Explanation of Inconsistencies.—As part of the budget display under subsection (a) for any fiscal year, the Secretary shall identify and explain—(1) any inconsistencies between (A) the information submitted under subsection (b) for that fiscal year, and (B) the information provided to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in support of the annual report of the President to Congress on funding for executive branch counterterrorism and antiterrorism programs and activities for that fiscal year in accordance with section 1051(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (31 U.S.C. 1113 note); and

(2) any inconsistencies between (A) the execution, during the previous fiscal year and the current fiscal year, of programs and activities of the Department of Defense combating terrorism program, and (B) the funding and specification for such programs and activities for those fiscal years in the manner provided by Congress (both in statutes and in relevant legislative history).


(d) Semiannual Reports on Obligations and Expenditures.—The Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a semiannual report on the obligation and expenditure of funds for the Department of Defense combating terrorism program. Such reports shall be submitted not later than April 15 each year, with respect to the first half of a fiscal year, and not later than November 15 each year, with respect to the second half of a fiscal year. Each such report shall compare the amounts of those obligations and expenditures to the amounts authorized and appropriated for the Department of Defense combating terrorism program for that fiscal year, by budget activity, sub-budget activity, and program element or line item. The second report for a fiscal year shall show such information for the second half of the fiscal year and cumulatively for the whole fiscal year. The report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may have a classified annex.

(e) Department of Defense Combating Terrorism Program.—In this section, the term “Department of Defense combating terrorism program” means the programs, projects, and activities of the Department of Defense related to combating terrorism inside and outside the United States.

(Added Pub. L. 106–65, div. A, title IX, § 932(b)(1), Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 727; amended Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title X, § 1043(b)(6), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1611.)


References in TextSection 1051(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is section 1051(b) of Pub. L. 105–85, which is set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance.

Amendments2003—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 108–136 struck out heading and text of subsec. (f). Text read as follows: “In this section, the term ‘congressional defense committees’ means—
“(A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
“(B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.”

Prioritization of Funds for Equipment Readiness and Strategic CapabilityPub. L. 109–364, div. A, title III, § 323, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2146, as amended by Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title III, § 353, Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 72; Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title III, § 332(a)–(f), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4185, 4187; Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title III, § 332, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 739, provided that:
“(a) Prioritization of Funds.—The Secretary of Defense shall take such steps as may be necessary through the planning, programming, budgeting, and execution systems of the Department of Defense to ensure that financial resources are provided for each fiscal year as necessary to enable—“(1) the Secretary of each military department to meet the requirements of that military department for that fiscal year for the repair, recapitalization, and replacement of equipment used in overseas contingency operations; and

“(2) the Secretary of the Army to meet the requirements of the Army, and the Secretary of the Navy to meet the requirements of the Marine Corps, for that fiscal year, in addition to the requirements under paragraph (1), for the reconstitution of equipment and materiel in prepositioned stocks in accordance with requirements under the policy or strategy implemented under the guidelines in section 2229 of title 10, United States Code.


“(b) Submission of Budget Information.—“(1) Submission of information.—As part of the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the President’s budget for a fiscal year or a request for supplemental appropriations, the Secretary of Defense shall include the following:“(A) The information described in paragraph (2) for the fiscal year for which the budget justification materials are submitted, the fiscal year during which the materials are submitted, and the preceding fiscal year.

“(B) The information described in paragraph (2) for each of the fiscal years covered by the future-years defense program for the fiscal year in which the report is submitted based on estimates of any amounts required to meet each of the requirements under subsection (a) that are not met for that fiscal year and are deferred to the future-years defense program.

“(C) A consolidated budget justification summary of the information submitted under subparagraphs (A) and (B).


“(2) Information described.—The information described in this paragraph is information that clearly and separately identifies, by appropriations account, budget activity, activity group, sub-activity group, and program element or line item, the amounts requested for the programs, projects, and activities of—“(A) each of the military departments for the repair, recapitalization, or replacement of equipment used in overseas contingency operations; and

“(B) the Army and the Marine Corps for the reconstitution of equipment and materiel in prepositioned stocks.



“(c) Contingency Operation Defined.—In this section, the term ‘contingency operation’ has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(13) of title 10, United States Code.”




Quarterly Detailed Accounting for Operations Conducted as Part of the Global War on TerrorismPub. L. 108–375, div. A, title X, § 1041, Oct. 28, 2004, 118 Stat. 2048, which required the Secretary of Defense to submit quarterly reports on Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Noble Eagle, and any other operation designated by the President as being an operation of the Global War on Terrorism, was repealed by Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title X, § 1062(f)(2), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1585.


