§ 742g. Cooperation with State Department(a) Representation at international meetingsThe Secretary shall cooperate to the fullest practicable extent with the Secretary of State in providing representation at all meetings and conferences relating to fish and wildlife in which representatives of the United States and foreign countries participate.
The Secretary of State shall designate the Secretary of the Interior or the Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife, or a person designated by the Secretary of the Interior to represent the Department of the Interior, as a member of the United States delegation attending such meetings and conferences and also as a member of the negotiating team of any such delegation.


(b) Consultation with officials responsible for technical and economic aidThe Secretary of State and all other officials having responsibilities in the fields of technical and economic aid to foreign nations shall consult with the Secretary in all cases in which the interests of fish and wildlife are involved, with a view to assuring that such interests are adequately represented at all times.


(c) International negotiationsNotwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall be represented in all international negotiations conducted by the United States pursuant to section 1351 of title 19, in any case in which fish products are directly affected by such negotiations.


(d) Consultation with governmental, private nonprofit, and other organizationsThe Secretary shall consult periodically with the various governmental, private nonprofit, and other organizations and agencies which have to do with any phase of fish and wildlife with respect to any problems that may arise in connection with such fish and wildlife.


(Aug. 8, 1956, ch. 1036, § 8, 70 Stat. 1123.)


Transfer of Functions
Transfer of functions to Secretary of Commerce from Secretary of the Interior by Reorg. Plan No. 4 of 1970, eff. Oct. 3, 1970, 35 F.R. 15627, 84 Stat. 2090, see note set out under section 742b of this title.


