§ 582a–8. Competitive forestry, natural resources, and environmental grants program(a) EstablishmentThe Secretary of Agriculture (hereafter referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) shall establish a competitive forestry, natural resources, and environmental grant program to award grants for the conduct of research as described in subsection (c) of this section.


(b) Eligible entitiesTo be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a) of this section, an entity shall—(1) be a State agricultural experiment station, a college or university, a research institution or organization, a Federal agency, a private organization, or a corporation that has a demonstrable capacity to conduct forestry, natural resources, and environmental research as determined by the Secretary; and

(2) prepare and submit to the Secretary, an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary shall require, including the proposed use of the amounts that may be received under a grant.


(c) UseIn awarding the initial grants under subsection (a) of this section the Secretary shall give priority to applicants who will use such grants for research concerning—(1) the biology of forest organisms, including physiology, genetic mechanisms, and biotechnology;

(2) ecosystem function and management, including forest ecosystem research, biodiversity, forest productivity, pest management, water resources, and alternative silvicultural systems;

(3) wood as a raw material, including forest products and harvesting;

(4) human forest interactions, including outdoor recreation, public policy formulation, economics, sociology, and administrative behavior;

(5) international trade, competition, and cooperation related to forest products;

(6) alternative native crops, products, and services that can be produced from renewable natural resources associated with privately held forest lands;

(7) viable economic production and marketing systems for alternative natural resource products and services;

(8) economic and environmental benefits of various conservation practices on forest lands;

(9) genetic tree improvement; and

(10) market expansion.


(d) Facilities and equipment(1) AuthorityGrants made under this section may be used to update research facilities and equipment available to facilitate the conduct of state-of-the-art research in forestry, natural resources, and the environment.


(2) Priorities and criteriaThe Secretary, in consultation with the Cooperative Forestry Research Council appointed under section 582a–4(b) of this title, may develop criteria and priorities for the awarding of grants for use under paragraph (1).



(e) RecommendationsThe Secretary shall request the Cooperative Forestry Research Council referred to in subsection (d)(2) of this section to provide recommendations regarding grant priorities.


(f) TermThe Secretary may make grants under this section for periods of not to exceed 5 years.


(g) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.


(Pub. L. 101–624, title XII, § 1232, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 3543.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Forest Stewardship Act of 1990 and as part of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, and not as part of the McIntire-Stennis Act of 1962 which comprises this subchapter.


