§ 470a. Historic preservation program(a) National Register of Historic Places; designation of properties as historic landmarks; properties deemed included; criteria; nomination of properties by States, local governments or individuals; regulations; review of threats to properties(1)(A) The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to expand and maintain a National Register of Historic Places composed of districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects significant in American history, architecture, archeology, engineering, and culture. Notwithstanding section 1125(c) of title 15, buildings and structures on or eligible for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places (either individually or as part of a historic district), or designated as an individual landmark or as a contributing building in a historic district by a unit of State or local government, may retain the name historically associated with the building or structure.

(B) Properties meeting the criteria for National Historic Landmarks established pursuant to paragraph (2) shall be designated as “National Historic Landmarks” and included on the National Register, subject to the requirements of paragraph (6). All historic properties included on the National Register on December 12, 1980, shall be deemed to be included on the National Register as of their initial listing for purposes of this subchapter. All historic properties listed in the Federal Register of February 6, 1979, as “National Historic Landmarks” or thereafter prior to the effective date of this Act are declared by Congress to be National Historic Landmarks of national historic significance as of their initial listing as such in the Federal Register for purposes of this subchapter and sections 461 to 467 of this title; except that in cases of National Historic Landmark districts for which no boundaries have been established, boundaries must first be published in the Federal Register.


(2) The Secretary in consultation with national historical and archaeological associations, shall establish or revise criteria for properties to be included on the National Register and criteria for National Historic Landmarks, and shall also promulgate or revise regulations as may be necessary for—(A) nominating properties for inclusion in, and removal from, the National Register and the recommendation of properties by certified local governments;

(B) designating properties as National Historic Landmarks and removing such designation;

(C) considering appeals from such recommendations, nominations, removals, and designations (or any failure or refusal by a nominating authority to nominate or designate);

(D) nominating historic properties for inclusion in the World Heritage List in accordance with the terms of the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage;

(E) making determinations of eligibility of properties for inclusion on the National Register; and

(F) notifying the owner of a property, any appropriate local governments, and the general public, when the property is being considered for inclusion on the National Register, for designation as a National Historic Landmark or for nomination to the World Heritage List.


(3) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (6), any State which is carrying out a program approved under subsection (b) of this section, shall nominate to the Secretary properties which meet the criteria promulgated under subsection (a) of this section for inclusion on the National Register. Subject to paragraph (6), any property nominated under this paragraph or under section 470h–2(a)(2) of this title shall be included on the National Register on the date forty-five days after receipt by the Secretary of the nomination and the necessary documentation, unless the Secretary disapproves such nomination within such forty-five day period or unless an appeal is filed under paragraph (5).

(4) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (6) the Secretary may accept a nomination directly from any person or local government for inclusion of a property on the National Register only if such property is located in a State where there is no program approved under subsection (b) of this section. The Secretary may include on the National Register any property for which such a nomination is made if he determines that such property is eligible in accordance with the regulations promulgated under paragraph (2). Such determination shall be made within ninety days from the date of the nomination unless the nomination is appealed under paragraph (5).

(5) Any person or local government may appeal to the Secretary a nomination of any historic property for inclusion on the National Register and may appeal to the Secretary the failure or refusal of a nominating authority to nominate a property in accordance with this subsection.

(6) The Secretary shall promulgate regulations requiring that before any property or district may be included on the National Register or designated as a National Historic Landmark, the owner or owners of such property, or a majority of the owners of the properties within the district in the case of an historic district, shall be given the opportunity (including a reasonable period of time) to concur in, or object to, the nomination of the property or district for such inclusion or designation. If the owner or owners of any privately owned property, or a majority of the owners of such properties within the district in the case of an historic district, object to such inclusion or designation, such property shall not be included on the National Register or designated as a National Historic Landmark until such objection is withdrawn. The Secretary shall review the nomination of the property or district where any such objection has been made and shall determine whether or not the property or district is eligible for such inclusion or designation, and if the Secretary determines that such property or district is eligible for such inclusion or designation, he shall inform the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer, the appropriate chief elected local official and the owner or owners of such property, of his determination. The regulations under this paragraph shall include provisions to carry out the purposes of this paragraph in the case of multiple ownership of a single property.

(7) The Secretary shall promulgate, or revise, regulations—(A) ensuring that significant prehistoric and historic artifacts, and associated records, subject to section 470h–2 of this title, the Act of June 27, 1960 (16 U.S.C. 469c) [16 U.S.C. 469 et seq.], and the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa and following) are deposited in an institution with adequate long-term curatorial capabilities;

(B) establishing a uniform process and standards for documenting historic properties by public agencies and private parties for purposes of incorporation into, or complementing, the national historical architectural and engineering records within the Library of Congress; and

(C) certifying local governments, in accordance with subsection (c)(1) of this section and for the allocation of funds pursuant to section 470c(c) of this title.


(8) The Secretary shall, at least once every 4 years, in consultation with the Council and with State Historic Preservation Officers, review significant threats to properties included in, or eligible for inclusion on, the National Register, in order to—(A) determine the kinds of properties that may be threatened;

(B) ascertain the causes of the threats; and

(C) develop and submit to the President and Congress recommendations for appropriate action.



(b) Regulations for State Historic Preservation Programs; periodic evaluations and fiscal audits of State programs; administration of State programs; contracts and cooperative agreements with nonprofit or educational institutions and State Historic Preservation Officers; treatment of State programs as approved programs(1) The Secretary, in consultation with the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers and the National Trust for Historic Preservation, shall promulgate or revise regulations for State Historic Preservation Programs. Such regulations shall provide that a State program submitted to the Secretary under this section shall be approved by the Secretary if he determines that the program—(A) provides for the designation and appointment by the Governor of a “State Historic Preservation Officer” to administer such program in accordance with paragraph (3) and for the employment or appointment by such officer of such professionally qualified staff as may be necessary for such purposes;

(B) provides for an adequate and qualified State historic preservation review board designated by the State Historic Preservation Officer unless otherwise provided for by State law; and

(C) provides for adequate public participation in the State Historic Preservation Program, including the process of recommending properties for nomination to the National Register.


(2)(A) Periodically, but not less than every 4 years after the approval of any State program under this subsection, the Secretary, in consultation with the Council on the appropriate provisions of this subchapter, and in cooperation with the State Historic Preservation Officer, shall evaluate the program to determine whether it is consistent with this subchapter.

(B) If, at any time, the Secretary determines that a major aspect of a State program is not consistent with this subchapter, the Secretary shall disapprove the program and suspend in whole or in part any contracts or cooperative agreements with the State and the State Historic Preservation Officer under this subchapter, until the program is consistent with this subchapter, unless the Secretary determines that the program will be made consistent with this subchapter within a reasonable period of time.

(C) The Secretary, in consultation with State Historic Preservation Officers, shall establish oversight methods to ensure State program consistency and quality without imposing undue review burdens on State Historic Preservation Officers.

(D) At the discretion of the Secretary, a State system of fiscal audit and management may be substituted for comparable Federal systems so long as the State system—(i) establishes and maintains substantially similar accountability standards; and

(ii) provides for independent professional peer review.


The Secretary may also conduct periodic fiscal audits of State programs approved under this section as needed and shall ensure that such programs meet applicable accountability standards.


(3) It shall be the responsibility of the State Historic Preservation Officer to administer the State Historic Preservation Program and to—(A) in cooperation with Federal and State agencies, local governments, and private organizations and individuals, direct and conduct a comprehensive statewide survey of historic properties and maintain inventories of such properties;

(B) identify and nominate eligible properties to the National Register and otherwise administer applications for listing historic properties on the National Register;

(C) prepare and implement a comprehensive statewide historic preservation plan;

(D) administer the State program of Federal assistance for historic preservation within the State;

(E) advise and assist, as appropriate, Federal and State agencies and local governments in carrying out their historic preservation responsibilities;

(F) cooperate with the Secretary, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, and other Federal and State agencies, local governments, and organizations and individuals to ensure that historic properties are taken into consideration at all levels of planning and development;

(G) provide public information, education, and training and technical assistance in historic preservation;

(H) cooperate with local governments in the development of local historic preservation programs and assist local governments in becoming certified pursuant to subsection (c) of this section;

(I) consult with appropriate Federal agencies in accordance with this subchapter on—(i) Federal undertakings that may affect historic properties; and

(ii) the content and sufficiency of any plans developed to protect, manage, or reduce or mitigate harm to such properties; and


(J) advise and assist in the evaluation of proposals for rehabilitation projects that may qualify for Federal assistance.


(4) Any State may carry out all or any part of its responsibilities under this subsection by contract or cooperative agreement with any qualified nonprofit organization or educational institution.

(5) Any State historic preservation program in effect under prior authority of law may be treated as an approved program for purposes of this subsection until the earlier of—(A) the date on which the Secretary approves a program submitted by the State under this subsection, or

(B) three years after October 30, 1992.


(6)(A) Subject to subparagraphs (C) and (D), the Secretary may enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with a State Historic Preservation Officer for any State authorizing such Officer to assist the Secretary in carrying out one or more of the following responsibilities within that State—(i) Identification and preservation of historic properties.

(ii) Determination of the eligibility of properties for listing on the National Register.

(iii) Preparation of nominations for inclusion on the National Register.

(iv) Maintenance of historical and archaeological data bases.

(v) Evaluation of eligibility for Federal preservation incentives.


Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to provide that any State Historic Preservation Officer or any other person other than the Secretary shall have the authority to maintain the National Register for properties in any State.

(B) The Secretary may enter into a contract or cooperative agreement under subparagraph (A) only if—(i) the State Historic Preservation Officer has requested the additional responsibility;

(ii) the Secretary has approved the State historic preservation program pursuant to subsection (b)(1) and (2) of this section;

(iii) the State Historic Preservation Officer agrees to carry out the additional responsibility in a timely and efficient manner acceptable to the Secretary and the Secretary determines that such Officer is fully capable of carrying out such responsibility in such manner;

(iv) the State Historic Preservation Officer agrees to permit the Secretary to review and revise, as appropriate in the discretion of the Secretary, decisions made by the Officer pursuant to such contract or cooperative agreement; and

(v) the Secretary and the State Historic Preservation Officer agree on the terms of additional financial assistance to the State, if there is to be any, for the costs of carrying out such responsibility.


(C) For each significant program area under the Secretary’s authority, the Secretary shall establish specific conditions and criteria essential for the assumption by State Historic Preservation Officers of the Secretary’s duties in each such program.

(D) Nothing in this subsection shall have the effect of diminishing the preservation programs and activities of the National Park Service.



(c) Certification of local governments by State Historic Preservation Officer; transfer of portion of grants; certification by Secretary; nomination of properties by local governments for inclusion on National Register(1) Any State program approved under this section shall provide a mechanism for the certification by the State Historic Preservation Officer of local governments to carry out the purposes of this subchapter and provide for the transfer, in accordance with section 470c(c) of this title, of a portion of the grants received by the States under this subchapter, to such local governments. Any local government shall be certified to participate under the provisions of this section if the applicable State Historic Preservation Officer, and the Secretary, certifies that the local government—(A) enforces appropriate State or local legislation for the designation and protection of historic properties;

(B) has established an adequate and qualified historic preservation review commission by State or local legislation;

(C) maintains a system for the survey and inventory of historic properties that furthers the purposes of subsection (b) of this section;

(D) provides for adequate public participation in the local historic preservation program, including the process of recommending properties for nomination to the National Register; and

(E) satisfactorily performs the responsibilities delegated to it under this subchapter.


Where there is no approved State program, a local government may be certified by the Secretary if he determines that such local government meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A) through (E); and in any such case the Secretary may make grants-in-aid to the local government for purposes of this section.

(2)(A) Before a property within the jurisdiction of the certified local government may be considered by the State to be nominated to the Secretary for inclusion on the National Register, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall notify the owner, the applicable chief local elected official, and the local historic preservation commission. The commission, after reasonable opportunity for public comment, shall prepare a report as to whether or not such property, in its opinion, meets the criteria of the National Register. Within sixty days of notice from the State Historic Preservation Officer, the chief local elected official shall transmit the report of the commission and his recommendation to the State Historic Preservation Officer. Except as provided in subparagraph (B), after receipt of such report and recommendation, or if no such report and recommendation are received within sixty days, the State shall make the nomination pursuant to subsection (a) of this section. The State may expedite such process with the concurrence of the certified local government.

(B) If both the commission and the chief local elected official recommend that a property not be nominated to the National Register, the State Historic Preservation Officer shall take no further action, unless within thirty days of the receipt of such recommendation by the State Historic Preservation Officer an appeal is filed with the State. If such an appeal is filed, the State shall follow the procedures for making a nomination pursuant to subsection (a) of this section. Any report and recommendations made under this section shall be included with any nomination submitted by the State to the Secretary.


(3) Any local government certified under this section or which is making efforts to become so certified shall be eligible for funds under the provisions of section 470c(c) of this title, and shall carry out any responsibilities delegated to it in accordance with such terms and conditions as the Secretary deems necessary or advisable.

(4) For the purposes of this section the term—(A) “designation” means the identification and registration of properties for protection that meet criteria established by the State or the locality for significant historic and prehistoric resources within the jurisdiction of a local government; and

(B) “protection” means a local review process under State or local law for proposed demolition of, changes to, or other action that may affect historic properties designated pursuant to this subsection.



(d) Historic properties of Indian tribes(1)(A) The Secretary shall establish a program and promulgate regulations to assist Indian tribes in preserving their particular historic properties. The Secretary shall foster communication and cooperation between Indian tribes and State Historic Preservation Officers in the administration of the national historic preservation program to ensure that all types of historic properties and all public interests in such properties are given due consideration, and to encourage coordination among Indian tribes, State Historic Preservation Officers, and Federal agencies in historic preservation planning and in the identification, evaluation, protection, and interpretation of historic properties.

(B) The program under subparagraph (A) shall be developed in such a manner as to ensure that tribal values are taken into account to the extent feasible. The Secretary may waive or modify requirements of this section to conform to the cultural setting of tribal heritage preservation goals and objectives. The tribal programs implemented by specific tribal organizations may vary in scope, as determined by each tribe’s chief governing authority.

(C) The Secretary shall consult with Indian tribes, other Federal agencies, State Historic Preservation Officers, and other interested parties and initiate the program under subparagraph (A) by not later than October 1, 1994.


(2) A tribe may assume all or any part of the functions of a State Historic Preservation Officer in accordance with subsections (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, with respect to tribal lands, as such responsibilities may be modified for tribal programs through regulations issued by the Secretary, if—(A) the tribe’s chief governing authority so requests;

(B) the tribe designates a tribal preservation official to administer the tribal historic preservation program, through appointment by the tribe’s chief governing authority or as a tribal ordinance may otherwise provide;

(C) the tribal preservation official provides the Secretary with a plan describing how the functions the tribal preservation official proposes to assume will be carried out;

(D) the Secretary determines, after consulting with the tribe, the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer, the Council (if the tribe proposes to assume the functions of the State Historic Preservation Officer with respect to review of undertakings under section 470f of this title), and other tribes, if any, whose tribal or aboriginal lands may be affected by conduct of the tribal preservation program—(i) that the tribal preservation program is fully capable of carrying out the functions specified in the plan provided under subparagraph (C);

(ii) that the plan defines the remaining responsibilities of the Secretary and the State Historic Preservation Officer; and

(iii) that the plan provides, with respect to properties neither owned by a member of the tribe nor held in trust by the Secretary for the benefit of the tribe, at the request of the owner thereof, the State Historic Preservation Officer, in addition to the tribal preservation official, may exercise the historic preservation responsibilities in accordance with subsections (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section; and


(E) based on satisfaction of the conditions stated in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D), the Secretary approves the plan.


(3) In consultation with interested Indian tribes, other Native American organizations and affected State Historic Preservation Officers, the Secretary shall establish and implement procedures for carrying out section 470c(a) of this title with respect to tribal programs that assume responsibilities under paragraph (2).

(4) At the request of a tribe whose preservation program has been approved to assume functions and responsibilities pursuant to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with such tribe permitting the assumption by the tribe of any part of the responsibilities referred to in subsection (b)(6) of this section on tribal land, if—(A) the Secretary and the tribe agree on additional financial assistance, if any, to the tribe for the costs of carrying out such authorities;

(B) the Secretary finds that the tribal historic preservation program has been demonstrated to be sufficient to carry out the contract or cooperative agreement and this subchapter; and

(C) the contract or cooperative agreement specifies the continuing responsibilities of the Secretary or of the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officers and provides for appropriate participation by—(i) the tribe’s traditional cultural authorities;

(ii) representatives of other tribes whose traditional lands are under the jurisdiction of the tribe assuming responsibilities; and

(iii) the interested public.



(5) The Council may enter into an agreement with an Indian tribe to permit undertakings on tribal land to be reviewed under tribal historic preservation regulations in place of review under regulations promulgated by the Council to govern compliance with section 470f of this title, if the Council, after consultation with the tribe and appropriate State Historic Preservation Officers, determines that the tribal preservation regulations will afford historic properties consideration equivalent to those afforded by the Council’s regulations.

(6)(A) Properties of traditional religious and cultural importance to an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization may be determined to be eligible for inclusion on the National Register.

(B) In carrying out its responsibilities under section 470f of this title, a Federal agency shall consult with any Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization that attaches religious and cultural significance to properties described in subparagraph (A).

(C) In carrying out his or her responsibilities under subsection (b)(3) of this section, the State Historic Preservation Officer for the State of Hawaii shall—(i) consult with Native Hawaiian organizations in assessing the cultural significance of any property in determining whether to nominate such property to the National Register;

(ii) consult with Native Hawaiian organizations in developing the cultural component of a preservation program or plan for such property; and

(iii) enter into a memorandum of understanding or agreement with Native Hawaiian organizations for the assessment of the cultural significance of a property in determining whether to nominate such property to the National Register and to carry out the cultural component of such preservation program or plan.




(e) Matching grants to States; grants to National Trust for Historic Preservation in the United States; program of direct grants for preservation of properties included on National Register; grants or loans to Indian tribes and ethnic or minority groups for preservation of cultural heritage; grants for religious properties; direct grants to Indian tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations, and Micronesian States(1) The Secretary shall administer a program of matching grants to the States for the purposes of carrying out this subchapter.

(2) The Secretary may administer grants to the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the United States, chartered by sections 468 to 468d of this title consistent with the purposes of its charter and this subchapter.

(3)(A) In addition to the programs under paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary shall administer a program of direct grants for the preservation of properties included on the National Register. Funds to support such program annually shall not exceed 10 per centum of the amount appropriated annually for the fund established under section 470h of this title. These grants may be made by the Secretary, in consultation with the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer—(i) for the preservation of National Historic Landmarks which are threatened with demolition or impairment and for the preservation of historic properties of World Heritage significance,

(ii) for demonstration projects which will provide information concerning professional methods and techniques having application to historic properties,

(iii) for the training and development of skilled labor in trades and crafts, and in analysis and curation, relating to historic preservation, and

(iv) to assist persons or small businesses within any historic district included in the National Register to remain within the district.


(B) The Secretary may also, in consultation with the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer, make grants or loans or both under this section to Indian tribes and to nonprofit organizations representing ethnic or minority groups for the preservation of their cultural heritage.

(C) Grants may be made under subparagraph (A)(i) and (iv) only to the extent that the proj­ect cannot be carried out in as effective a manner through the use of an insured loan under section 470d of this title.


(4) Grants may be made under this subsection for the preservation, stabilization, restoration, or rehabilitation of religious properties listed in the National Register of Historic Places, provided that the purpose of the grant is secular, does not promote religion, and seeks to protect those qualities that are historically significant. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to authorize the use of any funds made available under this section for the acquisition of any property referred to in the preceding sentence.

(5) The Secretary shall administer a program of direct grants to Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations for the purpose of carrying out this subchapter as it pertains to Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations. Matching fund requirements may be modified. Federal funds available to a tribe or Native Hawaiian organization may be used as matching funds for the purposes of the tribe’s or organization’s conducting its responsibilities pursuant to this section.

(6)(A) As part of the program of matching grant assistance from the Historic Preservation Fund to States, the Secretary shall administer a program of direct grants to the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and upon termination of the Trusteeship Agreement for the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Republic of Palau (referred to as the Micronesian States) in furtherance of the Compact of Free Association between the United States and the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands, approved by the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 [48 U.S.C. 1901 et seq., 2001 et seq.], the Trusteeship Agreement for the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Compact of Free Association between the United States and Palau, approved by the Joint Resolution entitled “Joint Resolution to approve the ‘Compact of Free Association’ between the United States and Government of Palau, and for other purposes” [48 U.S.C. 1931 et seq.]. The goal of the program shall be to establish historic and cultural preservation programs that meet the unique needs of each Micronesian State so that at the termination of the compacts the programs shall be firmly established. The Secretary may waive or modify the requirements of this section to conform to the cultural setting of those nations.

(B) The amounts to be made available to the Micronesian States shall be allocated by the Secretary on the basis of needs as determined by the Secretary. Matching funds may be waived or modified.



(f) Prohibition of use of funds for compensation of intervenors in preservation programNo part of any grant made under this section may be used to compensate any person intervening in any proceeding under this subchapter.


(g) Guidelines for Federal agency responsibility for agency-owned historic propertiesIn consultation with the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, the Secretary shall promulgate guidelines for Federal agency responsibilities under section 470h–2 of this title.


(h) Professional standards for preservation of federally owned or controlled historic propertiesWithin one year after December 12, 1980, the Secretary shall establish, in consultation with the Secretaries of Agriculture and Defense, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Administrator of the General Services Administration, professional standards for the preservation of historic properties in Federal ownership or control.


(i) Dissemination of information concerning professional methods and techniques for preservation of historic propertiesThe Secretary shall develop and make available to Federal agencies, State and local governments, private organizations and individuals, and other nations and international organizations pursuant to the World Heritage Convention, training in, and information concerning, professional methods and techniques for the preservation of historic properties and for the administration of the historic preservation program at the Federal, State, and local level. The Secretary shall also develop mechanisms to provide information concerning historic preservation to the general public including students.


(j) Preservation education and training program(1) The Secretary shall, in consultation with the Council and other appropriate Federal, tribal, Native Hawaiian, and non-Federal organizations, develop and implement a comprehensive preservation education and training program.

(2) The education and training program described in paragraph (1) shall include—(A) new standards and increased preservation training opportunities for Federal workers involved in preservation-related functions;

(B) increased preservation training opportunities for other Federal, State, tribal and local government workers, and students;

(C) technical or financial assistance, or both, to historically black colleges and universities, to tribal colleges, and to colleges with a high enrollment of Native Americans or Native Hawaiians, to establish preservation training and degree programs; and

(D) coordination of the following activities, where appropriate, with the National Center for Preservation Technology and Training—(i) distribution of information on preservation technologies;

(ii) provision of training and skill development in trades, crafts, and disciplines related to historic preservation in Federal training and development programs; and

(iii) support for research, analysis, conservation, curation, interpretation, and display related to preservation.




(Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915; Pub. L. 93–54, § 1(d), July 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 139; Pub. L. 91–383, § 11, as added Pub. L. 94–458, § 2, Oct. 7, 1976, 90 Stat. 1942; amended Pub. L. 96–205, title VI, § 608(a)(1), (2), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 92; Pub. L. 96–515, title II, § 201(a), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2988; Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, §§ 4003–4006(a), 4007, 4008, Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4753–4755, 4758; Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(29), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4584; Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, § 814(d)(2)(F), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4196; Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(9) [title III, § 3007], Nov. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 1536, 1501A–551; Pub. L. 106–208, § 5(a)(1)–(4), May 26, 2000, 114 Stat. 318.)


References in TextThe effective date of this Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(B), probably means the effective date of the National Historic Preservation Act Amendments of 1980, Pub. L. 96–515, approved Dec. 12, 1980, rather than the effective date of the National Historic Preservation Act, Pub. L. 89–665, which was approved Oct. 15, 1966.
Act of June 27, 1960 (16 U.S.C. 469c), referred to in subsec. (a)(7)(A), is Pub. L. 86–523, June 27, 1960, 74 Stat. 220, which enacted sections 469 to 469c–1 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
The Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa and following), referred to in subsec. (a)(7)(A), is Pub. L. 96–95, Oct. 31, 1979, 93 Stat. 721, which is classified generally to chapter 1B (§ 470aa et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 470aa of this title and Tables.
Sections 468 to 468d of this title, referred to in subsec. (e)(2), was in the original “an Act of Congress approved October 26, 1949 (63 Stat. 947)”, probably meaning Act Oct. 26, 1949, ch. 755, 63 Stat. 927, which is classified to sections 468 to 468d of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
The Compact of Free Association Act of 1985, referred to in subsec. (e)(6)(A), is Pub. L. 99–239, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770, which is classified principally to part A of subchapter I (§ 1901 et seq.) of chapter 18 and chapter 19 (§ 2001 et seq.) of Title 48, Territories and Insular Possessions. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1901 of Title 48 and Tables.
The Joint Resolution entitled “Joint Resolution to approve the ‘Compact of Free Association’ between the United States and Government of Palau, and for other purposes”, referred to in subsec. (e)(6)(A), is Pub. L. 99–658, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3672, which is classified generally to part A (§ 1931 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 18 of Title 48. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Amendments2000—Subsec. (d)(2)(D)(ii). Pub. L. 106–208, § 5(a)(1), inserted “and” after semicolon.
Subsec. (e)(2). Pub. L. 106–208, § 5(a)(2), amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (2) read as follows: “The Secretary shall administer a program of matching grant-in-aid to the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the United States, chartered by sections 468 to 468e of this title, for the purposes of carrying out the responsibilities of the National Trust.”
Subsec. (e)(3)(A)(iii). Pub. L. 106–208, § 5(a)(3), substituted comma for semicolon after “preservation”.
Subsec. (j)(2)(C). Pub. L. 106–208, § 5(a)(4), inserted “and” after semicolon at end.
1999—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). Pub. L. 106–113 inserted at end “Notwithstanding section 1125(c) of title 15, buildings and structures on or eligible for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places (either individually or as part of a historic district), or designated as an individual landmark or as a contributing building in a historic district by a unit of State or local government, may retain the name historically associated with the building or structure.”
1996—Subsec. (a)(1)(B). Pub. L. 104–333 inserted period after “published in the Federal Register” and struck out at end “and submitted to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and to the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of Representatives.”
1994—Subsec. (a)(1)(B). Pub. L. 103–437 substituted “Natural Resources” for “Interior and Insular Affairs” after “Committee on”.
1992—Subsec. (a)(8). Pub. L. 102–575, § 4003, added par. (8).
Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 102–575, § 4004(1), amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (2) read as follows: “Periodically, but not less than every four years after the approval of any State program under this subsection, the Secretary shall evaluate such program to make a determination as to whether or not it is in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter. If at any time, the Secretary determines that a State program does not comply with such requirements, he shall disapprove such program, and suspend in whole or in part assistance to such State under subsection (d)(1) of this section, unless there are adequate assurances that the program will comply with such requirements within a reasonable period of time. The Secretary may also conduct periodic fiscal audits of State programs approved under this section.”
Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 102–575, § 4004(2), substituted “in historic preservation;” for “relating to the Federal and State Historic Preservation Programs; and” in subpar. (G) and added subpars. (I) and (J).
Subsec. (b)(5)(B). Pub. L. 102–575, § 4004(3), substituted “October 30, 1992” for “December 12, 1980”.
Subsec. (b)(6). Pub. L. 102–575, § 4004(4), added par. (6).
Subsec. (c)(4). Pub. L. 102–575, § 4005, added par. (4).
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 102–575, § 4006(a)(2), added subsec. (d). Former subsec. (d) redesignated (e).
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 102–575, § 4007, amended par. (1) generally and added pars. (4) to (6). Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “The Secretary shall administer a program of matching grants-in-aid to the States for historic preservation projects, and State historic preservation programs, approved by the Secretary and having as their purpose the identification of historic properties and the preservation of properties included on the National Register.”
Pub. L. 102–575, § 4006(a)(1), redesignated subsec. (d) as (e). Former subsec. (e) redesignated (f).
Subsecs. (f) to (i). Pub. L. 102–575, § 4006(a)(1), redesignated subsecs. (e) to (h) as (f) to (i), respectively.
Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 102–575, § 4008, added subsec. (j).
1980—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 96–515 substituted provision designating certain properties as National Historical Landmarks, providing for establishment by the Secretary of the Interior of criteria for inclusion on or removal from the National Register, designation of properties as National Historical Landmarks and removal of such designation, and nomination of properties for inclusion in the World Heritage List, authorizing any State, local government, or person to nominate properties for inclusion on the National Register and to appeal a nomination or refusal to nominate, requiring that before property be included on the National Register or designated as a National Historic Landmark, the owner or owners of the property be given an opportunity to concur in, or object to, its inclusion, and authorizing the Secretary to promulgate regulations to ensure that significant prehistoric and historic artifacts and records receive proper treatment, to establish standards for documenting historic properties for incorporation in the national historical, architectural, and engineering records within the Library of Congress, and to certify local governments for allocation of funds, for provision authorizing the Secretary to grant funds to States for preparing comprehensive statewide historic surveys and plans for preservation and acquisition of historic properties, to establish programs of matching grants-in-aid to States for the purpose of historical preservation and to the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the United States for the purpose of carrying out the responsibilities of the National Trust, and to withhold from disclosure to the public, information relating to the location of sites or objects listed on the National Register whenever he determines that disclosure of specific information would create a risk of destruction or harm to such sites or objects.
Pub. L. 96–205, § 608(a)(1), in par. (2) struck out “and” after “culture;”, and in par. (3) substituted “Trust; and” for “Trust.”.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 96–515 substituted provision authorizing the establishment of State Historic Preservation Programs, providing for periodic evaluation of these programs and periodic fiscal audits, prescribing the responsibilities of the State Historic Preservation Officer, and designating the period within which prior State historic preservation programs are to remain in effect for provision defining the terms “State”, “project”, “historic preservation”, and “Secretary”.
Pub. L. 96–205, § 608(a)(2), inserted reference to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Subsecs. (c) to (h). Pub. L. 96–515 added subsecs. (c) to (h).
1976—Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 91–383, § 11, as added Pub. L. 94–458, § 2, added par. (4).
1973—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 93–54 defined “State” to include the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.


Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and the Trusteeship Agreement, see note set out preceding section 1681 of Title 48, Territories and Insular Possessions.

St. Augustine 450th Commemoration CommissionPub. L. 111–11, title VII, § 7404, Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1219, provided that:
“(a) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Commemoration.—The term ‘commemoration’ means the commemoration of the 450th anniversary of the founding of the settlement of St. Augustine, Florida.

“(2) Commission.—The term ‘Commission’ means the St. Augustine 450th Commemoration Commission established by subsection (b)(1).

“(3) Governor.—The term ‘Governor’ means the Governor of the State.

“(4) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of the Interior.

“(5) State.—“(A) In general.—The term ‘State’ means the State of Florida.

“(B) Inclusion.—The term ‘State’ includes agencies and entities of the State of Florida.



“(b) Establishment.—“(1) In general.—There is established a commission, to be known as the ‘St. Augustine 450th Commemoration Commission’.

“(2) Membership.—“(A) Composition.—The Commission shall be composed of 14 members, of whom—“(i) 3 members shall be appointed by the Secretary, after considering the recommendations of the St. Augustine City Commission;

“(ii) 3 members shall be appointed by the Secretary, after considering the recommendations of the Governor;

“(iii) 1 member shall be an employee of the National Park Service having experience relevant to the historical resources relating to the city of St. Augustine and the commemoration, to be appointed by the Secretary;

“(iv) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, taking into consideration the recommendations of the Mayor of the city of St. Augustine;

“(v) 1 member shall be appointed by the Secretary, after considering the recommendations of the Chancellor of the University System of Florida; and

“(vi) 5 members shall be individuals who are residents of the State who have an interest in, support for, and expertise appropriate to the commemoration, to be appointed by the Secretary, taking into consideration the recommendations of Members of Congress.


“(B) Time of appointment.—Each appointment of an initial member of the Commission shall be made before the expiration of the 120-day period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act [Mar. 30, 2009].

“(C) Term; vacancies.—“(i) Term.—A member of the Commission shall be appointed for the life of the Commission.

“(ii) Vacancies.—     “(I) In general.—A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.

     “(II) Partial term.—A member appointed to fill a vacancy on the Commission shall serve for the remainder of the term for which the predecessor of the member was appointed.


“(iii) Continuation of membership.—If a member of the Commission was appointed to the Commission as Mayor of the city of St. Augustine or as an employee of the National Park Service or the State University System of Florida, and ceases to hold such position, that member may continue to serve on the Commission for not longer than the 30-day period beginning on the date on which that member ceases to hold the position.



“(3) Duties.—The Commission shall—“(A) plan, develop, and carry out programs and activities appropriate for the commemoration;

“(B) facilitate activities relating to the commemoration throughout the United States;

“(C) encourage civic, patriotic, historical, educational, artistic, religious, economic, and other organizations throughout the United States to organize and participate in anniversary activities to expand understanding and appreciation of the significance of the founding and continuing history of St. Augustine;

“(D) provide technical assistance to States, localities, and nonprofit organizations to further the commemoration;

“(E) coordinate and facilitate for the public scholarly research on, publication about, and interpretation of, St. Augustine;

“(F) ensure that the commemoration provides a lasting legacy and long-term public benefit by assisting in the development of appropriate programs; and

“(G) help ensure that the observances of the foundation of St. Augustine are inclusive and appropriately recognize the experiences and heritage of all individuals present when St. Augustine was founded.



“(c) Commission Meetings.—“(1) Initial meeting.—Not later than 30 days after the date on which all members of the Commission have been appointed, the Commission shall hold the initial meeting of the Commission.

“(2) Meetings.—The Commission shall meet—“(A) at least 3 times each year; or

“(B) at the call of the Chairperson or the majority of the members of the Commission.


“(3) Quorum.—A majority of the voting members shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number may hold meetings.

“(4) Chairperson and vice chairperson.—“(A) Election.—The Commission shall elect the Chairperson and the Vice Chairperson of the Commission on an annual basis.

“(B) Absence of the chairperson.—The Vice Chairperson shall serve as the Chairperson in the absence of the Chairperson.


“(5) Voting.—The Commission shall act only on an affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Commission.


“(d) Commission Powers.—“(1) Gifts.—The Commission may solicit, accept, use, and dispose of gifts, bequests, or devises of money or other property for aiding or facilitating the work of the Commission.

“(2) Appointment of advisory committees.—The Commission may appoint such advisory committees as the Commission determines to be necessary to carry out this section.

“(3) Authorization of action.—The Commission may authorize any member or employee of the Commission to take any action that the Commission is authorized to take under this section.

“(4) Procurement.—“(A) In general.—The Commission may procure supplies, services, and property, and make or enter into contracts, leases, or other legal agreements, to carry out this section (except that a contract, lease, or other legal agreement made or entered into by the Commission shall not extend beyond the date of termination of the Commission).

“(B) Limitation.—The Commission may not purchase real property.


“(5) Postal services.—The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other agencies of the Federal Government.

“(6) Grants and technical assistance.—The Commission may—“(A) provide grants in amounts not to exceed $20,000 per grant to communities and nonprofit organizations for use in developing programs to assist in the commemoration;

“(B) provide grants to research and scholarly organizations to research, publish, or distribute information relating to the early history of St. Augustine; and

“(C) provide technical assistance to States, localities, and nonprofit organizations to further the commemoration.



“(e) Commission Personnel Matters.—“(1) Compensation of members.—“(A) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), a member of the Commission shall serve without compensation.

“(B) Federal employees.—A member of the Commission who is an officer or employee of the Federal Government shall serve without compensation other than the compensation received for the services of the member as an officer or employee of the Federal Government.


“(2) Travel expenses.—A member of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for an employee of an agency under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from the home or regular place of business of the member in the performance of the duties of the Commission.

“(3) Director and staff.—“(A) In general.—The Chairperson of the Commission may, without regard to the civil service laws (including regulations), nominate an executive director to enable the Commission to perform the duties of the Commission.

“(B) Confirmation of executive director.—The employment of an executive director shall be subject to confirmation by the Commission.


“(4) Compensation.—“(A) In general.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Commission may fix the compensation of the executive director and other personnel without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to classification of positions and General Schedule pay rates.

“(B) Maximum rate of pay.—The rate of pay for the executive director and other personnel shall not exceed the rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.


“(5) Detail of government employees.—“(A) Federal employees.—“(i) Detail.—At the request of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency may detail, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis, any of the personnel of the agency to the Commission to assist the Commission in carrying out the duties of the Commission under this section.

“(ii) Civil service status.—The detail of an employee under clause (i) shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.


“(B) State employees.—The Commission may—“(i) accept the services of personnel detailed from the State; and

“(ii) reimburse the State for services of detailed personnel.



“(6) Procurement of temporary and intermittent services.—The Chairperson of the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services in accordance with section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals that do not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title.

“(7) Volunteer and uncompensated services.—Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, the Commission may accept and use such voluntary and uncompensated services as the Commission determines to be necessary.

“(8) Support services.—“(A) In general.—The Secretary shall provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative support services as the Commission may request.

“(B) Reimbursement.—Any reimbursement under this paragraph shall be credited to the appropriation, fund, or account used for paying the amounts reimbursed.


“(9) FACA nonapplicability.—Section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Commission.

“(10) No effect on authority.—Nothing in this subsection supersedes the authority of the State, the National Park Service, the city of St. Augustine, or any designee of those entities, with respect to the commemoration.


“(f) Plans; Reports.—“(1) Strategic plan.—The Commission shall prepare a strategic plan for the activities of the Commission carried out under this section.

“(2) Final report.—Not later than September 30, 2015, the Commission shall complete and submit to Congress a final report that contains—“(A) a summary of the activities of the Commission;

“(B) a final accounting of funds received and expended by the Commission; and

“(C) the findings and recommendations of the Commission.



“(g) Authorization of Appropriations.—“(1) In general.—There is authorized to be appropriated to the Commission to carry out this section $500,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2015.

“(2) Availability.—Amounts made available under paragraph (1) shall remain available until December 31, 2015.


“(h) Termination of Commission.—“(1) Date of termination.—The Commission shall terminate on December 31, 2015.

“(2) Transfer of documents and materials.—Before the date of termination specified in paragraph (1), the Commission shall transfer all documents and materials of the Commission to the National Archives or another appropriate Federal entity.”





Recovery of Fees for Review Services for Historic Preservation Tax CertificationPub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(3) [title I], Nov. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 1535, 1501A–142, provided in part: “That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the National Park Service may hereafter recover all fees derived from providing necessary review services associated with historic preservation tax certification, and such funds shall be available until expended without further appropriation for the costs of such review services”.


Women’s Progress CommemorationPub. L. 105–341, Oct. 31, 1998, 112 Stat. 3196, provided that:
“SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.“This Act may be cited as the ‘Women’s Progress Commemoration Act’.

