“SEC. 8. MISCELLANEOUS.“(a) No General Applicability.—Nothing in this Act creates any right, interest, privilege, or immunity affecting any other Tribe or any other park or Federal lands.

“(b) Noninterference With Federal Agents.—“(1) In general.—Federal employees, agents, officers, and officials shall have a right of access to the MRA—“(A) to monitor compliance with the provisions of this Act; and

“(B) for other purposes, as though it were a Federal Indian reservation.


“(2) Statutory construction.—Nothing in this Act shall authorize the Tribe or members or agents of the Tribe to interfere with any Federal employee, agent, officer, or official in the performance of official duties (whether within or outside the boundaries of the MRA) except that nothing in this paragraph may prejudice any right under the Constitution of the United States.


“(c) Federal Permits.—“(1) In general.—No Federal permit shall be issued to the Tribe for any activity or structure that would be inconsistent with this Act.

“(2) Consultations.—Any Federal agency considering an application for a permit for construction or activities on the MRA shall consult with, and consider the advice, evidence, and recommendations of the Secretary before issuing a final decision.

“(3) Rule of construction.—Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Act, nothing in this Act supersedes any requirement of any other applicable Federal law.


“(d) Volunteer Programs and Tribal Involvement.—The Secretary may establish programs that foster greater involvement by the Tribe with respect to the Park. Those efforts may include internships and volunteer programs with tribal schoolchildren and with adult tribal members.

“(e) Saving Ecosystem Restoration.—“(1) In general.—Nothing in this Act shall be construed to amend or prejudice the authority of the United States to design, construct, fund, operate, permit, remove, or degrade canals, levees, pumps, impoundments, wetlands, flow ways, or other facilities, structures, or systems, for the restoration or protection of the South Florida ecosystem pursuant to Federal laws.

“(2) Use of noneasement lands.—“(A) In general.—The Secretary may use all or any part of the MRA lands to the extent necessary to restore or preserve the quality, quantity, timing, or distribution of surface or groundwater, if other reasonable alternative measures to achieve the same purpose are impractical.

“(B) Secretarial authority.—The Secretary may use lands referred to in subparagraph (A) either under an agreement with the tribal chairman or upon an order of the United States district court for the district in which the MRA is located, upon petition by the Secretary and finding by the court that—“(i) the proposed actions of the Secretary are necessary; and

“(ii) other reasonable alternative measures are impractical.



“(3) Costs.—“(A) In general.—In the event the Secretary exercises the authority granted the Secretary under paragraph (2), the United States shall be liable to the Tribe or the members of the Tribe for—“(i) cost of modification, removal, relocation, or reconstruction of structures lawfully erected in good faith on the MRA; and

“(ii) loss of use of the affected land within the MRA.


“(B) Payment of compensation.—Any compensation paid under subparagraph (A) shall be paid as cash payments with respect to taking structures and other fixtures and in the form of rights to occupy similar land adjacent to the MRA with respect to taking land.


“(4) Rule of construction.—Paragraphs (2) and (3) shall not apply to a natural easement described in section 6(d)(1).


“(f) Parties Held Harmless.—“(1) United states held harmless.—“(A) In general.—Subject to subparagraph (B) with respect to any tribal member, tribal employee, tribal contractor, tribal enterprise, or any person residing within the MRA, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States (including an officer, agent, or employee of the United States), shall not be liable for any action or failure to act by the Tribe (including an officer, employee, or member of the Tribe), including any failure to perform any of the obligations of the Tribe under this Act.

“(B) Rule of construction.—Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to alter any liability or other obligation that the United States may have under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.).


“(2) Tribe held harmless.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Tribe and the members of the Tribe shall not be liable for any injury, loss, damage, or harm that—“(A) occurs with respect to the MRA; and

“(B) is caused by an action or failure to act by the United States, or the officer, agent, or employee of the United States (including the failure to perform any obligation of the United States under this Act).



“(g) Cooperative Agreements.—Nothing in this Act shall alter the authority of the Secretary and the Tribe to enter into any cooperative agreement, including any agreement concerning law enforcement, emergency response, or resource management.

“(h) Water Rights.—Nothing in this Act shall enhance or diminish any water rights of the Tribe, or members of the Tribe, or the United States (with respect to the Park).

“(i) Enforcement.—“(1) Actions brought by attorney general.—The Attorney General may bring a civil action in the United States district court for the district in which the MRA is located, to enjoin the Tribe from violating any provision of this Act.

“(2) Action brought by tribe.—The Tribe may bring a civil action in the United States district court for the district in which the MRA is located to enjoin the United States from violating any provision of this Act.”


