§ 806b. Art. 6b. Rights of the victim of an offense under this chapter(a) Rights of a Victim of an Offense Under This Chapter.—A victim of an offense under this chapter has the following rights:(1) The right to be reasonably protected from the accused.

(2) The right to reasonable, accurate, and timely notice of any of the following:(A) A public hearing concerning the continuation of confinement prior to trial of the accused.

(B) A preliminary hearing under section 832 of this title (article 32) relating to the offense.

(C) A court-martial relating to the offense.

(D) A public proceeding of the service clemency and parole board relating to the offense.

(E) The release or escape of the accused, unless such notice may endanger the safety of any person.


(3) The right not to be excluded from any public hearing or proceeding described in paragraph (2) unless the military judge or investigating officer, as applicable, after receiving clear and convincing evidence, determines that testimony by the victim of an offense under this chapter would be materially altered if the victim heard other testimony at that hearing or proceeding.

(4) The right to be reasonably heard at any of the following:(A) A public hearing concerning the continuation of confinement prior to trial of the accused.

(B) A sentencing hearing relating to the offense.

(C) A public proceeding of the service clemency and parole board relating to the offense.


(5) The reasonable right to confer with the counsel representing the Government at any proceeding described in paragraph (2).

(6) The right to receive restitution as provided in law.

(7) The right to proceedings free from unreasonable delay.

(8) The right to be treated with fairness and with respect for the dignity and privacy of the victim of an offense under this chapter.


(b) Victim of an Offense Under This Chapter Defined.—In this section, the term “victim of an offense under this chapter” means a person who has suffered direct physical, emotional, or pecuniary harm as a result of the commission of an offense under this chapter (the Uniform Code of Military Justice).

(c) Legal Guardian for Certain Victims.—In the case of a victim of an offense under this chapter who is under 18 years of age, incompetent, incapacitated, or deceased, the military judge shall designate a legal guardian from among the representatives of the estate of the victim, a family member, or other suitable person to assume the victim’s rights under this section. However, in no event may the person so designated be the accused.

(d) Rule of Construction.—Nothing in this section (article) shall be construed—(1) to authorize a cause of action for damages; or

(2) to create, to enlarge, or to imply any duty or obligation to any victim of an offense under this chapter or other person for the breach of which the United States or any of its officers or employees could be held liable in damages.


(Added Pub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, § 1701(a)(1), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 952.)

ImplementationPub. L. 113–66, div. A, title XVII, § 1701(b), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 953, provided that:
“(1) Issuance.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 26, 2013]—“(A) the Secretary of Defense shall recommend to the President changes to the Manual for Courts-Martial to implement section 806b of title 10, United States Code (article 6b of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by subsection (a); and

“(B) the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Homeland Security (with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy) shall prescribe such regulations as each such Secretary considers appropriate to implement such section.


“(2) Mechanisms for affording rights.—The recommendations and regulations required by paragraph (1) shall include the following:“(A) Mechanisms for ensuring that victims are notified of, and accorded, the rights specified in section 806b of title 10, United States Code (article 6b of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by subsection (a).

“(B) Mechanisms for ensuring that members of the Armed Forces and civilian personnel of the Department of Defense and the Coast Guard make their best efforts to ensure that victims are notified of, and accorded, the rights specified in such section.

“(C) Mechanisms for the enforcement of such rights, including mechanisms for application for such rights and for consideration and disposition of applications for such rights.

“(D) The designation of an authority within each Armed Force to receive and investigate complaints relating to the provision or violation of such rights.

“(E) Disciplinary sanctions for members of the Armed Forces and other personnel of the Department of Defense and Coast Guard who willfully or wantonly fail to comply with requirements relating to such rights.”






