§ 539i. Fossil Ridge Recreation Management Area(a) Establishment(1) In order to conserve, protect, and enhance the scenic, wildlife, recreational, and other natural resource values of the Fossil Ridge area, there is hereby established the Fossil Ridge Recreation Management Area (hereinafter referred to as the “recreation management area”).

(2) The recreation management area shall consist of certain lands in the Gunnison National Forest, Colorado, which comprise approximately 43,900 acres, as generally depicted as “Area A” on a map entitled “Fossil Ridge Wilderness Proposal”, dated January, 1993.


(b) AdministrationThe Secretary of Agriculture shall administer the recreation management area in accordance with this section and the laws and regulations generally applicable to the National Forest System.


(c) WithdrawalSubject to valid existing rights, all lands within the recreation management area are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and from disposition under the mineral and geothermal leasing laws, including all amendments thereto.


(d) Timber harvestingNo timber harvesting shall be allowed within the recreation management area except to the extent that would be permitted in wilderness under section 1133(d)(1) of this title for necessary control of fire, insects, and diseases, and for public safety.


(e) Livestock grazingThe designation of the recreation management area shall not be construed to prohibit, or change the administration of, the grazing of livestock within the recreation management area.


(f) DevelopmentNo developed campgrounds shall be constructed within the recreation management area. After August 13, 1993, no new roads or trails may be constructed within the recreation management area.


(g) Off-road recreationMotorized travel shall be permitted within the recreation management area only on those established trails and routes existing as of July 1, 1991, on which such travel was permitted as of such date, except that other trails and routes may be used where necessary for administrative purposes or to respond to an emergency. No later than one year after August 13, 1993, the Secretary shall identify such routes and trails and shall prepare and make available to the public a map showing such routes and trails. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as precluding the Secretary from closing any trail or route from use for purposes of resource protection or public safety.


(Pub. L. 103–77, § 5, Aug. 13, 1993, 107 Stat. 760.)

Short TitlePub. L. 103–77, § 1(a), Aug. 13, 1993, 107 Stat. 756, provided that: “This Act [enacting this section and section 539j of this title, enacting provisions set out as a note under section 539j of this title, and enacting and amending provisions listed in a table of Wilderness Areas set out under section 1132 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993’.”



