§ 2058. Procedure for consumer product safety rules(a) Commencement of proceeding; publication of prescribed notice of proposed rulemaking; transmittal of noticeA proceeding for the development of a consumer product safety rule may be commenced by the publication in the Federal Register of an advance notice of proposed rulemaking which shall—(1) identify the product and the nature of the risk of injury associated with the product;

(2) include a summary of each of the regulatory alternatives under consideration by the Commission (including voluntary consumer product safety standards);

(3) include information with respect to any existing standard known to the Commission which may be relevant to the proceedings, together with a summary of the reasons why the Commission believes preliminarily that such standard does not eliminate or adequately reduce the risk of injury identified in paragraph (1);

(4) invite interested persons to submit to the Commission, within such period as the Commission shall specify in the notice (which period shall not be less than 30 days or more than 60 days after the date of publication of the notice), comments with respect to the risk of injury identified by the Commission, the regulatory alternatives being considered, and other possible alternatives for addressing the risk;

(5) invite any person (other than the Commission) to submit to the Commission, within such period as the Commission shall specify in the notice (which period shall not be less than 30 days after the date of publication of the notice), an existing standard or a portion of a standard as a proposed consumer product safety standard; and

(6) invite any person (other than the Commission) to submit to the Commission, within such period as the Commission shall specify in the notice (which period shall not be less than 30 days after the date of publication of the notice), a statement of intention to modify or develop a voluntary consumer product safety standard to address the risk of injury identified in paragraph (1) together with a description of a plan to modify or develop the standard.


The Commission shall transmit such notice within 10 calendar days to the appropriate Congressional committees.

(b) Voluntary standard; publication as proposed rule; notice of reliance of Commission on standard(1) If the Commission determines that any standard submitted to it in response to an invitation in a notice published under subsection (a)(5) of this section if promulgated (in whole, in part, or in combination with any other standard submitted to the Commission or any part of such a standard) as a consumer product safety standard, would eliminate or adequately reduce the risk of injury identified in a notice under subsection (a)(1) of this section, the Commission may publish such standard, in whole, in part, or in such combination and with nonmaterial modifications, as a proposed consumer product safety rule.

(2) If the Commission determines that—(A) compliance with any standard submitted to it in response to an invitation in a notice published under subsection (a)(6) of this section is likely to result in the elimination or adequate reduction of the risk of injury identified in the notice, and

(B) it is likely that there will be substantial compliance with such standard,


the Commission shall terminate any proceeding to promulgate a consumer product safety rule respecting such risk of injury and shall publish in the Federal Register a notice which includes the determination of the Commission and which notifies the public that the Commission will rely on the voluntary standard to eliminate or reduce the risk of injury, except that the Commission shall terminate any such proceeding and rely on a voluntary standard only if such voluntary standard is in existence. For purposes of this section, a voluntary standard shall be considered to be in existence when it is finally approved by the organization or other person which developed such standard, irrespective of the effective date of the standard. Before relying upon any voluntary consumer product safety standard, the Commission shall afford interested persons (including manufacturers, consumers, and consumer organizations) a reasonable opportunity to submit written comments regarding such standard. The Commission shall consider such comments in making any determination regarding reliance on the involved voluntary standard under this subsection.


(c) Publication of proposed rule; preliminary regulatory analysis; contents; transmittal of noticeNo consumer product safety rule may be proposed by the Commission unless the Commission publishes in the Federal Register the text of the proposed rule, including any alternatives, which the Commission proposes to promulgate, together with a preliminary regulatory analysis containing—(1) a preliminary description of the potential benefits and potential costs of the proposed rule, including any benefits or costs that cannot be quantified in monetary terms, and an identification of those likely to receive the benefits and bear the costs;

(2) a discussion of the reasons any standard or portion of a standard submitted to the Commission under subsection (a)(5) of this section was not published by the Commission as the proposed rule or part of the proposed rule;

(3) a discussion of the reasons for the Commission’s preliminary determination that efforts proposed under subsection (a)(6) of this section and assisted by the Commission as required by section 2054(a)(3) of this title would not, within a reasonable period of time, be likely to result in the development of a voluntary consumer product safety standard that would eliminate or adequately reduce the risk of injury addressed by the proposed rule; and

(4) a description of any reasonable alternatives to the proposed rule, together with a summary description of their potential costs and benefits, and a brief explanation of why such alternatives should not be published as a proposed rule.


The Commission shall transmit such notice within 10 calendar days to the appropriate Congressional committees. Any proposed consumer product safety rule shall be issued within twelve months after the date of publication of the notice, unless the Commission determines that such proposed rule is not reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce the risk of injury associated with the product or is not in the public interest. The Commission may extend the twelve-month period for good cause. If the Commission extends such period, it shall immediately transmit notice of such extension to the appropriate Congressional committees. Such notice shall include an explanation of the reasons for such extension, together with an estimate of the date by which the Commission anticipates such rulemaking will be completed. The Commission shall publish notice of such extension and the information submitted to the Congress in the Federal Register. Nothing in this subsection shall preclude any person from submitting an existing standard or portion of a standard as a proposed consumer product safety standard.

(d) Promulgation of rule; time(1) Within 60 days after the publication under subsection (c) of this section of a proposed consumer product safety rule respecting a risk of injury associated with a consumer product, the Commission shall—(A) promulgate a consumer product safety rule respecting the risk of injury associated with such product, if it makes the findings required under subsection (f) of this section, or

(B) withdraw the applicable notice of proposed rulemaking if it determines that such rule is not (i) reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury associated with the product, or (ii) in the public interest;


except that the Commission may extend such 60-day period for good cause shown (if it publishes its reasons therefor in the Federal Register).

(2) Consumer product safety rules shall be promulgated in accordance with section 553 of title 5, except that the Commission shall give interested persons an opportunity for the oral presentation of data, views, or arguments, in addition to an opportunity to make written submissions. A transcript shall be kept of any oral presentation.


(e) Expression of risk of injury; consideration of available product data; needs of elderly and handicappedA consumer product safety rule shall express in the rule itself the risk of injury which the standard is designed to eliminate or reduce. In promulgating such a rule the Commission shall consider relevant available product data including the results of research, development, testing, and investigation activities conducted generally and pursuant to this chapter. In the promulgation of such a rule the Commission shall also consider and take into account the special needs of elderly and handicapped persons to determine the extent to which such persons may be adversely affected by such rule.


(f) Findings; final regulatory analysis; judicial review of rule(1) Prior to promulgating a consumer product safety rule, the Commission shall consider, and shall make appropriate findings for inclusion in such rule with respect to—(A) the degree and nature of the risk of injury the rule is designed to eliminate or reduce;

(B) the approximate number of consumer products, or types or classes thereof, subject to such rule;

(C) the need of the public for the consumer products subject to such rule, and the probable effect of such rule upon the utility, cost, or availability of such products to meet such need; and

(D) any means of achieving the objective of the order while minimizing adverse effects on competition or disruption or dislocation of manufacturing and other commercial practices consistent with the public health and safety.


(2) The Commission shall not promulgate a consumer product safety rule unless it has prepared, on the basis of the findings of the Commission under paragraph (1) and on other information before the Commission, a final regulatory analysis of the rule containing the following information:(A) A description of the potential benefits and potential costs of the rule, including costs and benefits that cannot be quantified in monetary terms, and the identification of those likely to receive the benefits and bear the costs.

(B) A description of any alternatives to the final rule which were considered by the Commission, together with a summary description of their potential benefits and costs and a brief explanation of the reasons why these alternatives were not chosen.

(C) A summary of any significant issues raised by the comments submitted during the public comment period in response to the preliminary regulatory analysis, and a summary of the assessment by the Commission of such issues.


The Commission shall publish its final regulatory analysis with the rule.

(3) The Commission shall not promulgate a consumer product safety rule unless it finds (and includes such finding in the rule)—(A) that the rule (including its effective date) is reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury associated with such product;

(B) that the promulgation of the rule is in the public interest;

(C) in the case of a rule declaring the product a banned hazardous product, that no feasible consumer product safety standard under this chapter would adequately protect the public from the unreasonable risk of injury associated with such product;

(D) in the case of a rule which relates to a risk of injury with respect to which persons who would be subject to such rule have adopted and implemented a voluntary consumer product safety standard, that—(i) compliance with such voluntary consumer product safety standard is not likely to result in the elimination or adequate reduction of such risk of injury; or

(ii) it is unlikely that there will be substantial compliance with such voluntary consumer product safety standard;


(E) that the benefits expected from the rule bear a reasonable relationship to its costs; and

(F) that the rule imposes the least burdensome requirement which prevents or adequately reduces the risk of injury for which the rule is being promulgated.


(4)(A) Any preliminary or final regulatory analysis prepared under subsection (c) or (f)(2) of this section shall not be subject to independent judicial review, except that when an action for judicial review of a rule is instituted, the contents of any such regulatory analysis shall constitute part of the whole rulemaking record of agency action in connection with such review.

(B) The provisions of subparagraph (A) shall not be construed to alter the substantive or procedural standards otherwise applicable to judicial review of any action by the Commission.



(g) Effective date of rule or standard; stockpiling of product(1) Each consumer product safety rule shall specify the date such rule is to take effect not exceeding 180 days from the date promulgated, unless the Commission finds, for good cause shown, that a later effective date is in the public interest and publishes its reasons for such finding. The effective date of a consumer product safety standard under this chapter shall be set at a date at least 30 days after the date of promulgation unless the Commission for good cause shown determines that an earlier effective date is in the public interest. In no case may the effective date be set at a date which is earlier than the date of promulgation. A consumer product safety standard shall be applicable only to consumer products manufactured after the effective date.

(2) The Commission may by rule prohibit a manufacturer of a consumer product from stockpiling any product to which a consumer product safety rule applies, or to which a rule under this chapter or similar rule, regulation, standard, or ban under any other Act enforced by the Commission applies, so as to prevent such manufacturer from circumventing the purpose of such rule, regulation, standard, or ban. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “stockpiling” means manufacturing or importing a product between the date of promulgation of such rule, regulation, standard, or ban and its effective date at a rate which is significantly greater (as determined under the rule under this paragraph) than the rate at which such product was produced or imported during a base period (prescribed in the rule under this paragraph) ending before the date of promulgation of the rule, regulation, standard, or ban.


(h) Amendment or revocation of ruleThe Commission may by rule amend or revoke any consumer product safety rule. Such amendment or revocation shall specify the date on which it is to take effect which shall not exceed 180 days from the date the amendment or revocation is published unless the Commission finds for good cause shown that a later effective date is in the public interest and publishes its reasons for such finding. Where an amendment involves a material change in a consumer product safety rule, sections 2056 and 2057 of this title, and subsections (a) through (g) of this section shall apply. In order to revoke a consumer product safety rule, the Commission shall publish a proposal to revoke such rule in the Federal Register, and allow oral and written presentations in accordance with subsection (d)(2) of this section. It may revoke such rule only if it determines that the rule is not reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury associated with the product. Section 2060 of this title shall apply to any amendment of a consumer product safety rule which involves a material change and to any revocation of a consumer product safety rule, in the same manner and to the same extent as such section applies to the Commission’s action in promulgating such a rule.


(i) Petition to initiate rulemakingThe Commission shall grant, in whole or in part, or deny any petition under section 553(e) of title 5 requesting the Commission to initiate a rulemaking, within a reasonable time after the date on which such petition is filed. The Commission shall state the reasons for granting or denying such petition. The Commission may not deny any such petition on the basis of a voluntary standard unless the voluntary standard is in existence at the time of the denial of the petition, the Commission has determined that the voluntary standard is likely to result in the elimination or adequate reduction of the risk of injury identified in the petition, and it is likely that there will be substantial compliance with the standard.


(Pub. L. 92–573, § 9, Oct. 27, 1972, 86 Stat. 1215; Pub. L. 94–284, § 9, May 11, 1976, 90 Stat. 506; Pub. L. 95–631, § 4(d), Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3744; Pub. L. 97–35, title XII, § 1203(a), Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 704; Pub. L. 101–608, title I, §§ 108(a), 109, 110(a), Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3112, 3113; Pub. L. 110–314, title II, §§ 204(a)(1), 213, 235(c)(3), Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3040, 3052, 3074.)

Amendments2008—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 110–314, §§ 204(a)(1)(A), 235(c)(3), substituted “may be commenced” for “shall be commenced” in introductory provisions and “the appropriate Congressional committees” for “the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives” in concluding provisions.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 110–314, § 204(a)(1)(B), which directed amendment of subsec. (b) by substituting “in a notice” for “in the notice”, was executed by making the substitution the first place the words appeared in par. (1) after “risk of injury identified”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 110–314, § 235(c)(3), substituted “the appropriate Congressional committees” for “the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives” in two places in concluding provisions.
Pub. L. 110–314, § 204(a)(1)(C)–(E), in introductory provisions, substituted “unless the” for “unless, not less than 60 days after publication of the notice required in subsection (a) of this section, the” and in concluding provisions, substituted “the notice,” for “an advance notice of proposed rulemaking under subsection (a) of this section relating to the product involved,” and “Register. Nothing in this subsection shall preclude any person from submitting an existing standard or portion of a standard as a proposed consumer product safety standard.” for “Register.”
Subsec. (g)(2). Pub. L. 110–314, § 213, inserted “or to which a rule under this chapter or similar rule, regulation, standard, or ban under any other Act enforced by the Commission applies,” after “applies,” and substituted “rule, regulation, standard, or ban” for “consumer product safety rule” the second, third, and fourth places it appeared.
1990—Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 101–608, § 108(a), struck out period at end and inserted “, except that the Commission shall terminate any such proceeding and rely on a voluntary standard only if such voluntary standard is in existence. For purposes of this section, a voluntary standard shall be considered to be in existence when it is finally approved by the organization or other person which developed such standard, irrespective of the effective date of the standard. Before relying upon any voluntary consumer product safety standard, the Commission shall afford interested persons (including manufacturers, consumers, and consumer organizations) a reasonable opportunity to submit written comments regarding such standard. The Commission shall consider such comments in making any determination regarding reliance on the involved voluntary standard under this subsection.”
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 101–608, § 109, inserted at end “Any proposed consumer product safety rule shall be issued within twelve months after the date of publication of an advance notice of proposed rulemaking under subsection (a) relating to the product involved, unless the Commission determines that such proposed rule is not reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce the risk of injury associated with the product or is not in the public interest. The Commission may extend the twelve-month period for good cause. If the Commission extends such period, it shall immediately transmit notice of such extension to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives. Such notice shall include an explanation of the reasons for such extension, together with an estimate of the date by which the Commission anticipates such rulemaking will be completed. The Commission shall publish notice of such extension and the information submitted to the Congress in the Federal Register.”
Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 101–608, § 110(a), added subsec. (i).
1981—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 97–35 amended subsec. (a) generally, substituting provisions for the commencement of rule-making proceedings by the publication of a notice of proposed rule-making for provisions for the promulgation of rule after publication of a notice according to specified provisions of law and to withdraw applicable notice of proceeding upon determination that such rule was not reasonably necessary to eliminate or reduce an unreasonable risk of injury associated with the product or that it was in the public interest, and providing for certain other procedural safeguards.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 97–35 amended subsec. (b) generally, substituting provisions relating to the publication of a voluntary standard as a proposed consumer product safety rule and notice of reliance by the Commission on such standard for provisions that a consumer product safety rule shall express the risk of injury which the standard is designed to eliminate or reduce.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 97–35 amended subsec. (c) generally, substituting provisions relating to the publication in the Federal Register of the text of the proposed rule, including alternatives, with a preliminary regulatory analysis, and for the transmittal of such notice to certain committees of Congress for provisions relating to the requirement that the Commission make appropriate findings with respect to certain specified factors for inclusion in a consumer product safety rule.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 97–35 amended subsec. (d) generally, substituting provisions relating to the time for promulgation of the rule in accordance with section 553 of title 5 or withdrawal of the applicable notice for provisions relating to the effective dates for rules and standards and the authority of the Commission to prohibit stockpiling.
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 97–35 amended subsec. (e) generally, substituting provisions relating to the requirement that the consumer product safety rule express the risk of injury which is to be eliminated or reduced and requiring, that in promulgating the rule, the Commission to consider available product data and the needs of the elderly and handicapped persons for provisions relating to the amendment and revocation of rules.
Subsecs. (f) to (h). Pub. L. 97–35 added subsecs. (f) to (h).
1978—Subsec. (a)(1), (2). Pub. L. 95–631 substituted in pars. (1) and (2) reference to section 2056 of this title for prior reference to section 2056(c), (e)(1), or (f) of this title.
1976—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 94–284 inserted provision directing the Commission to take into consideration the special needs of the elderly and the handicapped in promulgating a consumer product safety rule.

Effective Date of 1981 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 97–35 applicable with respect to regulations under this chapter and chapters 25 and 30 of this title for which notices of proposed rulemaking are issued after Aug. 14, 1981, see section 1215 of Pub. L. 97–35, set out as a note under section 2052 of this title.


