§ 410iii–7. Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park Advisory Commission(a) EstablishmentThere is established the Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park Advisory Commission.


(b) DutiesThe Commission shall—(1) advise the Secretary in the preparation and implementation of a general management plan described in section 410iii–6 of this title; and

(2) advise the Secretary with respect to the identification of sites of significance outside the Park boundary deemed necessary to fulfill the purposes of this subchapter.


(c) Membership(1) CompositionThe Commission shall be composed of 15 members appointed by the Secretary so as to include the following:(A) 1 representative from the Commonwealth of Virginia.

(B) 1 representative each from the local governments of Strasburg, Middletown, Frederick County, Shenandoah County, and Warren County.

(C) 2 representatives of private landowners within the Park.

(D) 1 representative from a citizen interest group.

(E) 1 representative from the Cedar Creek Battlefield Foundation.

(F) 1 representative from Belle Grove, Incorporated.

(G) 1 representative from the National Trust for Historic Preservation.

(H) 1 representative from the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields Foundation.

(I) 1 ex-officio representative from the National Park Service.

(J) 1 ex-officio representative from the United States Forest Service.


(2) ChairpersonThe Chairperson of the Commission shall be elected by the members to serve a term of one year renewable for one additional year.


(3) VacanciesA vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.


(4) Terms of service(A) In generalEach member shall be appointed for a term of 3 years and may be reappointed for not more than 2 successive terms.


(B) Initial membersOf the members first appointed under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall appoint—(i) 4 members for a term of 1 year;

(ii) 5 members for a term of 2 years; and

(iii) 6 members for a term of 3 years.



(5) Extended serviceA member may serve after the expiration of that member’s term until a successor has taken office.


(6) Majority ruleThe Commission shall act and advise by affirmative vote of a majority of its members.


(7) MeetingsThe Commission shall meet at least quarterly at the call of the chairperson or a majority of the members of the Commission.


(8) Quorum8 members shall constitute a quorum.



(d) CompensationMembers shall serve without pay. Members who are full-time officers or employees of the United States, the Commonwealth of Virginia, or any political subdivision thereof shall receive no additional pay on account of their service on the Commission.


(e) Travel expensesWhile away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of service for the Commission, members shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5.


(f) Hearings; public involvementThe Commission may, for purposes of carrying out this subchapter, hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such public testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Commission considers appropriate. The Commission may not issue subpoenas or exercise any subpoena authority.


(Pub. L. 107–373, § 9, Dec. 19, 2002, 116 Stat. 3107.)

Termination of Advisory CommissionsAdvisory commissions established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a commission established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such commission is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a commission established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 3(2) and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


