§ 460ggg–2. Recreation area(a) Designation and purposesFor the purposes of ensuring the protection of certain natural, scenic, fish and wildlife, historic and archaeological, wildland and watershed values, and providing for the enhancement of the recreation opportunities associated with these values, certain lands in the Chattahoochee National Forest, Georgia, which comprise approximately 23,330 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled “Springer Mountain National Recreation Area—Proposed”, dated October 1991, are hereby designated as a national recreation area and shall be known as Ed Jenkins National Recreation Area (hereafter in this section referred to as the “recreation area”).


(b) Administration(1) Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall administer the recreation area in accordance with the laws, rules, and regulations applicable to the national forests in such a way as to further the purposes of this section. Except as provided in this section, the Secretary may not conduct timber harvesting in the recreation area. The Secretary may remove timber in the recreation area in furtherance of this section, but only in a manner which does not impair the purposes for which the recreation area is established. Salvage or sanitation harvesting of timber stands which are substantially damaged by fire, windthrow or other catastrophe, or are in imminent danger from insect or disease attack, is authorized to maintain forest health. Timber harvesting is authorized to provide for visitor safety.

(2) Nothing in this section shall prevent the completion of existing timber sales under contract. The Secretary may permit additional road construction in the area in furtherance of the purposes for which the recreation area is established.

(3) By virtue of the designation under this section, the Secretary need not change patterns of public access or closure on existing permanent national forest development roads. At his discretion, however, the Secretary may open or close such existing roads to public use for reasons of sound resource management.

(4) Lands within the recreation area are hereby withdrawn from the operation of all laws pertaining to mineral leasing.

(5) The Secretary may permit, in his discretion, the continued maintenance of existing wildlife openings, in cooperation with the State of Georgia and other Federal, State, and private cooperators, and may permit new wildlife openings in furtherance of the purposes for which the recreation area is established.

(6) The Secretary shall protect, enhance, and promote the public’s opportunities for primitive and semiprimitive recreation in the recreation area.

(7) Designation by this section shall not interfere with rights of access to privately held lands.


(Pub. L. 102–217, § 4, Dec. 11, 1991, 105 Stat. 1668; Pub. L. 102–456, § 2, Oct. 23, 1992, 106 Stat. 2264.)


References in TextThe laws pertaining to mineral leasing, referred to in subsec. (b)(4), are classified generally to Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining.

Amendments1992—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 102–456 substituted “Ed Jenkins National Recreation Area” for “Springer Mountain National Recreation Area”.


