§ 460l–14. Facilities or project modifications to be provided without written indication of intent(a) Other project purposes as justification; public health and safety requirement of minimum facilities at access points; basis for calculation of benefits; nonreimbursable costsNo facilities or project modifications which will furnish recreation or fish and wildlife enhancement benefits shall be provided in the absence of the indication of intent with respect thereto specified in section 460l–13(a) of this title unless (1) such facilities or modifications serve other project purposes and are justified thereby without regard to such incidental recreation or fish and wildlife enhancement benefits as they may have or (2) they are minimum facilities which are required for the public health and safety and are located at access points provided by roads existing at the time of project construction or constructed for the administration and management of the project. Calculation of the recreation and fish and wildlife enhancement benefits in any such case shall be based on the number of visitor-days anticipated in the absence of recreation and fish and wildlife enhancement facilities or modifications except as hereinbefore provided and on the value per visitor-day of the project without such facilities or modifications. Project costs allocated to recreation and fish and wildlife enhancement on this basis shall be nonreimbursable.


(b) Preservation of recreation and fish and wildlife enhancement potential; execution of agreements within ten year period; disposition of lands in absence of such agreements, prohibition against uses conflicting with project purposes, and preference to uses promoting and not detracting from such potentialNotwithstanding the absence of an indication of intent as specified in section 460l–13(a) of this title, lands may be provided in connection with project construction to preserve the recreation and fish and wildlife enhancement potential of the project:(1) If non-Federal public bodies execute an agreement after initial operation of the project (which agreement shall provide that the non-Federal public bodies will administer project land and water areas for recreation or fish and wildlife enhancement or both pursuant to the plan for the development of the project approved by the head of the agency having administrative jurisdiction over it and will bear not less than one-half the costs of lands, facilities, and project modifications provided for recreation, and will bear one-quarter of such costs for fish and wildlife enhancement, and not less than one-half the costs of planning studies, and the costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement attributable thereto) the remainder of the costs of lands, facilities, and project modifications provided pursuant to this paragraph shall be nonreimbursable. Such agreement and subsequent development, however, shall not be the basis for any reallocation of joint costs of the project to recreation or fish and wildlife enhancement.

(2) If, within ten years after initial operation of the project, there is not an executed agreement as specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the head of the agency having jurisdiction over the project may utilize the lands for any lawful purpose within the jurisdiction of his agency, or may offer the land for sale to its immediate prior owner or his immediate heirs at its appraised fair market value as approved by the head of the agency at the time of offer or, if a firm agreement by said owner or his immediate heirs is not executed within ninety days of the date of the offer, may transfer custody of the lands to another Federal agency for use for any lawful purpose within the jurisdiction of that agency, or may lease the lands to a non-Federal public body, or may transfer the lands to the Administrator of General Services for disposition in accordance with the surplus property laws of the United States. In no case shall the lands be used or made available for use for any purpose in conflict with the purposes for which the project was constructed, and in every case except that of an offer to purchase made, as hereinbefore provided, by the prior owner or his heirs preference shall be given to uses which will preserve and promote the recreation and fish and wildlife enhancement potential of the project or, in the absence thereof, will not detract from that potential.


(c) Expansion or modification of existing facilities(1) Any recreation facility constructed under this part may be expanded or modified if—(A) the facility is inadequate to meet recreational demands; and

(B) a non-Federal public body executes an agreement which provides that such public body—(i) will administer the expanded or modified facilities pursuant to a plan for development for the project that is approved by the agency with administrative jurisdiction over the project; and

(ii) will bear not less than one-half of the planning and capital costs of such expansion or modification and not less than one-half of the costs of the operation, maintenance, and replacement attributable to the expansion of the facility.



(2) The Federal share of the cost of expanding or modifying a recreational facility described in paragraph (1) may not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of expanding or modifying the facility.


(Pub. L. 89–72, § 3, July 9, 1965, 79 Stat. 214; Pub. L. 93–251, title I, § 77(a)(3), Mar. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 33; Pub. L. 102–575, title XXVIII, § 2804(b), (d), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4691.)


References in TextThis part, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 89–72, which enacted sections 460l–12 to 460l–21 of this title and amended sections 460l–5(a) and 662(d) of this title.

Amendments1992—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 102–575, § 2804(b), struck out “within ten years” after “execute an agreement” and substituted “not less than one-half the costs of planning studies, and the costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement attributable” for “all costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement attributable”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 102–575, § 2804(d), added subsec. (c).
1974—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 93–251 substituted “modifications provided for recreation, and will bear one-quarter of such costs for fish and wildlife enhancement” for “modifications provided for either or both of those purposes, as the case may be”.

Effective Date of 1974 AmendmentFor effective date of amendment by Pub. L. 93–251, see section 77(b) of Pub. L. 93–251, set out as a note under section 460l–13 of this title.


