§ 719d. Federal and State officer or agency and other interested persons’ reports(a) Federal officer or agency comments; submittal to President; public availabilityNot later than July 1, 1977, any Federal officer or agency may submit written comments to the President with respect to the recommendation and report of the Commission and alternative methods for transportation of Alaska natural gas for delivery to the contiguous States. Such comments shall be made available to the public by the President when submitted to him, unless expressly exempted from this requirement in whole or in part by the President, under section 552(b)(1) of title 5. Any such written comment shall include information within the competence of such Federal officer or agency with respect to—(1) environmental considerations, including air and water quality and noise impacts;

(2) the safety of the transportation systems;

(3) international relations, including the status and time schedule for any necessary Canadian approvals and plans;

(4) national security, particularly security of supply;

(5) sources of financing for capital costs;

(6) the impact upon competition;

(7) impact on the national economy, including regional natural gas requirements; and

(8) relationship of the proposed transportation system to other aspects of national energy policy.


(b) State officer or agency and other interested persons’ comments; submittal to PresidentNot later than July 1, 1977, the Governor of any State, any municipality, State utility commission, and any other interested person may submit to the President such written comments with respect to the recommendation and report of the Commission and alternative systems for delivering Alaska natural gas to the contiguous States as they determine to be appropriate.


(c) Report of Federal officer or agency to the PresidentNot later than July 1, 1977, each Federal officer or agency shall report to the President with respect to actions to be taken by such officer or agency under section 719g(a) of this title relative to each transportation system reported on by the Commission under section 719c(c) of this title and shall include such officer’s or agency’s recommendations with respect to any provision of law to be waived pursuant to section 719f(g) of this title in conjunction with any decision of the President which designates a system for approval.


(d) Report of Council on Environmental Quality to the PresidentFollowing receipt by the President of the Commission’s recommendations, the Council on Environmental Quality shall afford interested persons an opportunity to present oral and written data, views, and arguments respecting the environmental impact statements submitted by the Commission under section 719c(e) of this title. Not later than July 1, 1977, the Council on Environmental Quality shall submit to the President a report, which shall be contemporaneously made available by the Council to the public, summarizing any data, views, and arguments received and setting forth the Council’s views concerning the legal and factual sufficiency of each such environmental impact statement and other matters related to environmental impact as the Council considers to be relevant.


(Pub. L. 94–586, § 6, Oct. 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 2906.)


Transfer of Functions
Enforcement functions authorized by, and supplemental enforcement authority created by this chapter with respect to pre-construction, construction, and initial operation of transportation system for Canadian and Alaskan natural gas transferred to Federal Inspector, Office of Federal Inspector for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, until first anniversary of date of initial operation of Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System, see Reorg. Plan No. 1 of 1979, §§ 102(h)(1), 203(a), 44 F.R. 33663, 33666, 93 Stat. 1373, 1376, effective July 1, 1979, set out under section 719e of this title. Office of Federal Inspector for the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System abolished and functions and authority vested in Inspector transferred to Secretary of Energy by section 3012(b) of Pub. L. 102–486, set out as an Abolition of Office of Federal Inspector note under section 719e of this title. Functions and authority vested in Secretary of Energy subsequently transferred to Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Projects by section 720d(f) of this title.
Federal Power Commission terminated and functions, personnel, property, funds, etc., transferred to Secretary of Energy (except for certain functions transferred to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) by sections 7151(b), 7171(a), 7172(a)(1), 7291, and 7293 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.


