“SEC. 707. MODERNIZATION TRANSITION COMMITTEE.“(a) Establishment.—There is established a committee of 12 members to be known as the Modernization Transition Committee.

“(b) Membership and Terms.—(1) The Committee shall consist of—“(A) five members representing agencies and departments of the United States which are responsible for providing or using weather services, including but not limited to the National Weather Service, the Department of Defense, the Federal Aviation Administration, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and

“(B) seven members to be appointed by the Secretary from civil defense and public safety organizations, news media, any labor organization certified by the Federal Labor Relations Authority as an exclusive representative of weather service employees, meteorological experts, and private sector users of weather information such as pilots and farmers.


“(2) The terms of office of a member of the Committee shall be 3 years; except that, of the original membership, four shall serve a 5-year term, four shall serve a 4-year term, and four shall serve a 3-year term. No individual may serve for more than one additional 3-year term.

“(3) The Secretary shall designate a chairman of the Committee from among its members.


“(c) Duties.—(1) The Committee may review any proposed certification under section 706 for which the Secretary has provided a notice of intent to certify in the Plan, and should review such a proposed certification if there is a significant possibility of degradation of service within the affected service area. Upon the request of the Committee, the Secretary shall make available to the Committee the supporting documents developed by the Secretary in connection with the proposed certification. The Committee may prepare and submit to the Secretary, prior to publication of the proposed certification, a report which evaluates the proposed certification on the basis of the modernization criteria and with respect to the requirement that there be no degradation of service.

“(2) The Committee shall advise the Congress and the Secretary on—“(A) the implementation of the Strategic Plan, annual development of the Plan, and establishment and implementation of modernization criteria; and

“(B) matters of public safety and the provision of weather services which relate to the comprehensive modernization of the National Weather Service.



“(d) Pay and Travel Expenses.—Members of the Committee who are not employees of the United States shall each be paid at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the rate for GS–18 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the Committee. Members shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.

“(e) Staff.—The Secretary shall make available to the Committee such staff, information, and assistance as it may reasonably require to carry out its activities.

“(f) Termination.—The Committee shall terminate on December 31, 1999.

