§ 460nnn–51. Establishment of advisory council(a) EstablishmentThe Secretary shall establish the Steens Mountain Advisory Council to advise the Secretary in managing the Cooperative Management and Protection Area and in promoting the cooperative management under subpart 3 of this part.


(b) MembersThe advisory council shall consist of 12 voting members, to be appointed by the Secretary, as follows:(1) A private landowner in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area, appointed from nominees submitted by the county court for Harney County, Oregon.

(2) Two persons who are grazing permittees on Federal lands in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area, appointed from nominees submitted by the county court for Harney County, Oregon.

(3) A person interested in fish and recreational fishing in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area, appointed from nominees submitted by the Governor of Oregon.

(4) A member of the Burns Paiute Tribe, appointed from nominees submitted by the Burns Paiute Tribe.

(5) Two persons who are recognized environmental representatives, one of whom shall represent the State as a whole, and one of whom is from the local area, appointed from nominees submitted by the Governor of Oregon.

(6) A person who participates in what is commonly called dispersed recreation, such as hiking, camping, nature viewing, nature photography, bird watching, horse back riding, or trail walking, appointed from nominees submitted by the Oregon State Director of the Bureau of Land Management.

(7) A person who is a recreational permit holder or is a representative of a commercial recreation operation in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area, appointed from nominees submitted jointly by the Oregon State Director of the Bureau of Land Management and the county court for Harney County, Oregon.

(8) A person who participates in what is commonly called mechanized or consumptive recreation, such as hunting, fishing, off-road driving, hang gliding, or parasailing, appointed from nominees submitted by the Oregon State Director of the Bureau of Land Management.

(9) A person with expertise and interest in wild horse management on Steens Mountain, appointed from nominees submitted by the Oregon State Director of the Bureau of Land Management.

(10) A person who has no financial interest in the Cooperative Management and Protection Area to represent statewide interests, appointed from nominees submitted by the Governor of Oregon.


(c) ConsultationIn reviewing nominees submitted under subsection (b) of this section for possible appointment to the advisory council, the Secretary shall consult with the respective community of interest that the nominees are to represent to ensure that the nominees have the support of their community of interest.


(d) 11 So in original. Two subsecs. (d) have been enacted. Terms(1) Staggered termsMembers of the advisory council shall be appointed for terms of 3 years, except that, of the members first appointed, four members shall be appointed for a term of 1 year and four members shall be appointed for a term of 2 years.


(2) ReappointmentA member may be reappointed to serve on the advisory council.


(3) VacancyA vacancy on the advisory council shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.



(d) 1 Chairperson and proceduresThe advisory council shall elect a chairperson and establish such rules and procedures as it deems necessary or desirable.


(e) Service without compensationMembers of the advisory council shall serve without pay, but the Secretary shall reimburse members for reasonable expenses incurred in carrying out official duties as a member of the council.


(f) Administrative supportThe Secretary shall provide the advisory council with necessary administrative support and shall designate an appropriate officer of the Bureau of Land Management to serve as the Secretary’s liaison to the council.


(g) State liaisonThe Secretary shall appoint one person, nominated by the Governor of Oregon, to serve as the State government liaison to the advisory council.


(h) Applicable lawThe advisory committee 22 So in original. Probably should be “advisory council”. shall be subject to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).


(Pub. L. 106–399, title I, § 131, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1664.)


References in TextThe Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in subsec. (h), is Pub. L. 94–579, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2743, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of Title 43 and Tables.
The Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (h), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


