§ 460uu–45. Acoma Pueblo exchanges(a) Lands to be exchanged(1) Upon the request of the Pueblo of Acoma, the Secretary shall acquire by exchange any lands held in trust for the Pueblo of Acoma (hereinafter referred to as “trust lands”) located within the boundary of the conservation area which the Pueblo wishes to exchange pursuant to this section. Such trust lands shall be exchanged either for—(A) lands described in subsection (c) of this section (with respect to trust lands west of New Mexico Highway 117); or

(B) public lands of approximately equal value located outside the monument and outside the conservation area but within the boundaries of the State of New Mexico which are selected by the Pueblo of Acoma, so long as such exchange is consistent with applicable law and Bureau of Land Management resource management plans developed pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 [43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.].


(2) All lands selected by and transferred to the Pueblo of Acoma at its request pursuant to this section shall thereafter be held in trust by the Secretary for the Pueblo of Acoma in the same manner as the lands for which they were exchanged.

(3) Any lands west of New Mexico Highway 117 which are acquired by the Secretary pursuant to this section shall be incorporated into the monument and managed accordingly, and section 460uu–3 of this title and all other provisions of this subchapter and other law applicable to lands designated by this subchapter as part of the monument shall apply to such incorporated lands.


(b) Public lands available for exchangeFor purposes of acquiring lands pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary, consistent with applicable law and Bureau of Land Management resource management plans described in subsection (a) of this section, shall make public lands within the boundaries of the State of New Mexico available for exchange. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as authorizing or requiring revocation of any existing withdrawal or classification of public land except in a manner consistent with applicable law.


(c) Public lands available for transfer; management of lands not exchanged or transferred(1) The Secretary shall make the lands within the areas identified as “Acoma Potential Exchange Areas” on the map referenced in section 460uu–21 of this title available for transfer to the Pueblo of Acoma pursuant to this subsection.

(2) Upon a request of the Pueblo of Acoma submitted to the Secretary no later than one year after December 31, 1987, lands within the areas described in paragraph (1) shall be transferred to the Pueblo of Acoma in exchange for trust lands of approximately equal value within that portion of the conservation area west of New Mexico Highway 117. The Secretary may require exchanges of land under this subsection to be on the basis of compact and contiguous parcels.

(3) Any lands within the areas described in paragraph (1) not proposed for exchange by a request submitted to the Secretary by the Pueblo of Acoma within the period specified in paragraph (2), and any lands in such areas not ultimately transferred pursuant to this subsection, shall be incorporated within the conservation area and managed accordingly. In addition, any lands in that portion of the areas described in paragraph (1) lying in section 1, township 7N, range 9W, New Mexico Principal Meridian, not transferred to the Pueblo of Acoma pursuant to this subsection shall be added to and incorporated within the Cebolla Wilderness and managed accordingly.


(Pub. L. 100–225, title V, § 505, Dec. 31, 1987, 101 Stat. 1545.)


References in TextThe Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(B), is Pub. L. 94–579, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2743, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of Title 43 and Tables.


