§ 1192. Prohibited transactions(a) Nonconforming productsThe manufacture for sale, the sale, or the offering for sale, in commerce, or the importation into the United States, or the introduction, delivery for introduction, transportation or causing to be transported, in commerce, or the sale or delivery after a sale or shipment in commerce, of any product, fabric, or related material which fails to conform to an applicable standard or regulation issued or amended under the provisions of section 1193 of this title, shall be unlawful and shall be an unfair method of competition and an unfair and deceptive act or practice in commerce under the Federal Trade Commission Act [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.].


(b) Nonconforming componentsThe manufacture for sale, the sale, or the offering for sale, of any product made of fabric or related material which fails to conform to an applicable standard or regulation issued or amended under section 1193 of this title, and which has been shipped or received in commerce shall be unlawful and shall be an unfair method of competition and an unfair and deceptive act or practice in commerce under the Federal Trade Commission Act [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.].


(June 30, 1953, ch. 164, § 3, 67 Stat. 111; Pub. L. 90–189, § 2, Dec. 14, 1967, 81 Stat. 568.)


References in TextThe Federal Trade Commission Act, referred to in text, is act Sept. 26, 1914, ch. 311, 38 Stat. 717, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 41 et seq.) of chapter 2 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 58 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1967—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 90–189 substituted “or the sale or delivery after a sale or shipment in commerce, of any product, fabric, or related material which fails to conform to an applicable standard or regulation issued or amended under the provisions of section 1193 of this title” for “or for the purpose of sale or delivery after sale in commerce, of any article of wearing apparel which under the provisions of section 1193 of this title is so highly flammable as to be dangerous when worn by individuals”.
Subsecs. (b), (c). Pub. L. 90–189 struck out former subsec. (b) which made the sale or the offering for sale, in commerce, or the importation into the United States, or the introduction, delivery for introduction, transportation or causing to be transported in commerce or for the purpose of sale or delivery after sale in commerce, of any fabric which under the provisions of section 1193 of this title was so highly flammable as to be dangerous when worn by individuals unlawful and an unfair method of competition and an unfair and deceptive act or practice in commerce under the Federal Trade Commission Act, redesignated subsec. (c) as (b) and, in subsec. (b) as so redesignated, substituted “product made of fabric or related material which fails to conform to an applicable standard or regulation issued or amended under section 1193 of this title” for “article of wearing apparel made of fabric which under section 1193 of this title is so highly flammable as to be dangerous when worn by individuals”.


Transfer of Functions
Functions of Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, Secretary of Commerce, and Federal Trade Commission under this chapter transferred to Consumer Product Safety Commission, along with functions of Federal Trade Commission under Federal Trade Commission Act, to extent such functions relate to administration and enforcement of this chapter, see section 2079 of this title.


