§ 166b. Combatant commands: funding for combating terrorism readiness initiatives(a) Combating Terrorism Readiness Initiatives Fund.—From funds made available in any fiscal year for the budget account in the Department of Defense known as the “Combating Terrorism Readiness Initiatives Fund”, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff may provide funds to the commander of a combatant command, upon the request of the commander, or, with respect to a geographic area or areas not within the area of responsibility of a commander of a combatant command, to an officer designated by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for such purpose. The Chairman may provide such funds for initiating any activity named in subsection (b) and for maintaining and sustaining the activity for the fiscal year in which initiated and one additional fiscal year.

(b) Authorized Activities.—Activities for which funds may be provided under subsection (a) are the following:(1) Procurement and maintenance of physical security equipment.

(2) Improvement of physical security sites.

(3) Under extraordinary circumstances—(A) physical security management planning;

(B) procurement and support of security forces and security technicians;

(C) security reviews and investigations and vulnerability assessments; and

(D) any other activity relating to physical security.



(c) Priority.—The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in considering requests for funds in the Combating Terrorism Readiness Initiatives Fund, should give priority consideration to emergency or emergent unforeseen high-priority requirements for combating terrorism.

(d) Relationship to Other Funding.—Any amount provided by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for a fiscal year out of the Combating Terrorism Readiness Initiatives Fund for an activity referred to in subsection (b) shall be in addition to amounts otherwise available for that activity for that fiscal year.

(e) Limitation.—Funds may not be provided under this section for any activity that has been denied authorization by Congress.

(Added Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title XV, § 1512(a), Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1272.)
