§ 4514a. Study and reports on guarantee fees(a) Ongoing study of feesThe Director shall conduct an ongoing study of fees charged by enterprises for guaranteeing a mortgage.


(b) Collection of dataThe Director shall, by regulation or order, establish procedures for the collection of data from enterprises for purposes of this subsection,11 So in original. Probably should be “section”. including the format and the process for collection of such data.


(c) Reports to CongressThe Director shall annually submit a report to Congress on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a), based on the aggregated data collected under subsection (a) for the subject year, regarding the amount of such fees and the criteria used by the enterprises to determine such fees.


(d) Contents of reportsThe reports required under subsection (c) shall identify and analyze—(1) the factors considered in determining the amount of the guarantee fees charged;

(2) the total revenue earned by the enterprises from guarantee fees;

(3) the total costs incurred by the enterprises for providing guarantees;

(4) the average guarantee fee charged by the enterprises;

(5) an analysis of any increase or decrease in guarantee fees from the preceding year;

(6) a breakdown of the revenue and costs associated with providing guarantees, based on product type and risk classifications; and

(7) a breakdown of guarantee fees charged based on asset size of the originator and the number of loans sold or transferred to an enterprise.


(e) Protection of informationNothing in this section may be construed to require or authorize the Director to publicly disclose information that is confidential or proprietary.


(Pub. L. 110–289, div. A, title VI, § 1601, July 30, 2008, 122 Stat. 2824.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Federal Housing Finance Regulatory Reform Act of 2008, and also as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, and not as part of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 which comprises this chapter.


Definitions
For definitions of terms used in this section, see section 1002(b) of Pub. L. 110–289, set out as a note under section 4511 of this title.


