§ 797. General powers of Commission
The Commission is authorized and empowered—(a) Investigations and dataTo make investigations and to collect and record data concerning the utilization of the water resources of any region to be developed, the water-power industry and its relation to other industries and to interstate or foreign commerce, and concerning the location, capacity, development costs, and relation to markets of power sites, and whether the power from Government dams can be advantageously used by the United States for its public purposes, and what is a fair value of such power, to the extent the Commission may deem necessary or useful for the purposes of this chapter.


(b) Statements as to investment of licensees in projects; access to projects, maps, etc.To determine the actual legitimate original cost of and the net investment in a licensed project, and to aid the Commission in such determinations, each licensee shall, upon oath, within a reasonable period of time to be fixed by the Commission, after the construction of the original project or any addition thereto or betterment thereof, file with the Commission in such detail as the Commission may require, a statement in duplicate showing the actual legitimate original cost of construction of such project addition, or betterment, and of the price paid for water rights, rights-of-way, lands, or interest in lands. The licensee shall grant to the Commission or to its duly authorized agent or agents, at all reasonable times, free access to such project, addition, or betterment, and to all maps, profiles, contracts, reports of engineers, accounts, books, records, and all other papers and documents relating thereto. The statement of actual legitimate original cost of said project, and revisions thereof as determined by the Commission, shall be filed with the Secretary of the Treasury.


(c) Cooperation with executive departments; information and aid furnished CommissionTo cooperate with the executive departments and other agencies of State or National Governments in such investigations; and for such purpose the several departments and agencies of the National Government are authorized and directed upon the request of the Commission, to furnish such records, papers, and information in their possession as may be requested by the Commission, and temporarily to detail to the Commission such officers or experts as may be necessary in such investigations.


(d) Publication of information, etc.; reports to CongressTo make public from time to time the information secured hereunder, and to provide for the publication of its reports and investigations in such form and manner as may be best adapted for public information and use. The Commission, on or before the 3d day of January of each year, shall submit to Congress for the fiscal year preceding a classified report showing the permits and licenses issued under this subchapter, and in each case the parties thereto, the terms prescribed, and the moneys received if any, or account thereof.


(e) Issue of licenses for construction, etc., of dams, conduits, reservoirs, etc.To issue licenses to citizens of the United States, or to any association of such citizens, or to any corporation organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, or to any State or municipality for the purpose of constructing, operating, and maintaining dams, water conduits, reservoirs, power houses, transmission lines, or other project works necessary or convenient for the development and improvement of navigation and for the development, transmission, and utilization of power across, along, from, or in any of the streams or other bodies of water over which Congress has jurisdiction under its authority to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States, or upon any part of the public lands and reservations of the United States (including the Territories), or for the purpose of utilizing the surplus water or water power from any Government dam, except as herein provided: Provided, That licenses shall be issued within any reservation only after a finding by the Commission that the license will not interfere or be inconsistent with the purpose for which such reservation was created or acquired, and shall be subject to and contain such conditions as the Secretary of the department under whose supervision such reservation falls shall deem necessary for the adequate protection and utilization of such reservation: 11 So in original. The colon probably should be a period. The license applicant and any party to the proceeding shall be entitled to a determination on the record, after opportunity for an agency trial-type hearing of no more than 90 days, on any disputed issues of material fact with respect to such conditions. All disputed issues of material fact raised by any party shall be determined in a single trial-type hearing to be conducted by the relevant resource agency in accordance with the regulations promulgated under this subsection and within the time frame established by the Commission for each license proceeding. Within 90 days of August 8, 2005, the Secretaries of the Interior, Commerce, and Agriculture shall establish jointly, by rule, the procedures for such expedited trial-type hearing, including the opportunity to undertake discovery and cross-examine witnesses, in consultation with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.22 So in original. The period probably should be a colon. Provided further, That no license affecting the navigable capacity of any navigable waters of the United States shall be issued until the plans of the dam or other structures affecting the navigation have been approved by the Chief of Engineers and the Secretary of the Army. Whenever the contemplated improvement is, in the judgment of the Commission, desirable and justified in the public interest for the purpose of improving or developing a waterway or waterways for the use or benefit of interstate or foreign commerce, a finding to that effect shall be made by the Commission and shall become a part of the records of the Commission: Provided further, That in case the Commission shall find that any Government dam may be advantageously used by the United States for public purposes in addition to navigation, no license therefor shall be issued until two years after it shall have reported to Congress the facts and conditions relating thereto, except that this provision shall not apply to any Government dam constructed prior to June 10, 1920: And provided further, That upon the filing of any application for a license which has not been preceded by a preliminary permit under subsection (f) of this section, notice shall be given and published as required by the proviso of said subsection. In deciding whether to issue any license under this subchapter for any project, the Commission, in addition to the power and development purposes for which licenses are issued, shall give equal consideration to the purposes of energy conservation, the protection, mitigation of damage to, and enhancement of, fish and wildlife (including related spawning grounds and habitat), the protection of recreational opportunities, and the preservation of other aspects of environmental quality.


(f) Preliminary permits; notice of applicationTo issue preliminary permits for the purpose of enabling applicants for a license hereunder to secure the data and to perform the acts required by section 802 of this title: Provided, however, That upon the filing of any application for a preliminary permit by any person, association, or corporation the Commission, before granting such application, shall at once give notice of such application in writing to any State or municipality likely to be interested in or affected by such application; and shall also publish notice of such application once each week for four weeks in a daily or weekly newspaper published in the county or counties in which the project or any part hereof or the lands affected thereby are situated.


(g) Investigation of occupancy for developing power; ordersUpon its own motion to order an investigation of any occupancy of, or evidenced intention to occupy, for the purpose of developing electric power, public lands, reservations, or streams or other bodies of water over which Congress has jurisdiction under its authority to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States by any person, corporation, State, or municipality and to issue such order as it may find appropriate, expedient, and in the public interest to conserve and utilize the navigation and water-power resources of the region.


(June 10, 1920, ch. 285, pt. I, § 4, 41 Stat. 1065; June 23, 1930, ch. 572, § 2, 46 Stat. 798; renumbered pt. I and amended, Aug. 26, 1935, ch. 687, title II, §§ 202, 212, 49 Stat. 839, 847; July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, § 205(a), 61 Stat. 501; Pub. L. 97–375, title II, § 212, Dec. 21, 1982, 96 Stat. 1826; Pub. L. 99–495, § 3(a), Oct. 16, 1986, 100 Stat. 1243; Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 241(a), Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 674.)

Amendments2005—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 109–58, which directed amendment of subsec. (e) by inserting after “adequate protection and utilization of such reservation.” at end of first proviso “The license applicant and any party to the proceeding shall be entitled to a determination on the record, after opportunity for an agency trial-type hearing of no more than 90 days, on any disputed issues of material fact with respect to such conditions. All disputed issues of material fact raised by any party shall be determined in a single trial-type hearing to be conducted by the relevant resource agency in accordance with the regulations promulgated under this subsection and within the time frame established by the Commission for each license proceeding. Within 90 days of August 8, 2005, the Secretaries of the Interior, Commerce, and Agriculture shall establish jointly, by rule, the procedures for such expedited trial-type hearing, including the opportunity to undertake discovery and cross-examine witnesses, in consultation with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.”, was executed by making the insertion after “adequate protection and utilization of such reservation:” at end of first proviso, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
1986—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 99–495 inserted provisions that in deciding whether to issue any license under this subchapter, the Commission, in addition to power and development purposes, is required to give equal consideration to purposes of energy conservation, the protection, mitigation of damage to, and enhancement of, fish and wildlife, the protection of recreational opportunities, and the preservation of environmental quality.
1982—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 97–375 struck out provision that the report contain the names and show the compensation of the persons employed by the Commission.
1935—Subsec. (a). Act Aug. 26, 1935, § 202, struck out last paragraph of subsec. (a) which related to statements of cost of construction, etc., and free access to projects, maps, etc., and is now covered by subsec. (b).
Subsecs. (b), (c). Act Aug. 26, 1935, § 202, added subsec. (b) and redesignated former subsecs. (b) and (c) as (c) and (d), respectively.
Subsec. (d). Act Aug. 26, 1935, § 202, redesignated subsec. (c) as (d) and substituted “3d day of January” for “first Monday in December” in second sentence. Former subsec. (d) redesignated (e).
Subsec. (e). Act Aug. 26, 1935, § 202, redesignated subsec. (d) as (e) and substituted “streams or other bodies of water over which Congress has jurisdiction under its authority to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States” for “navigable waters of the United States” and “subsection (f)” for “subsection (e)”. Former subsec. (e) redesignated (f).
Subsec. (f). Act Aug. 26, 1935, § 202, redesignated subsec. (e) as (f) and substituted “once each week for four weeks” for “for eight weeks”. Former section (f), which related to the power of the Commission to prescribe regulations for the establishment of a system of accounts and the maintenance thereof, was struck out by act Aug. 26, 1935.
Subsec. (g). Act Aug. 26, 1935, § 202, added subsec. (g). Former subsec. (g), which related to the power of the Commission to hold hearings and take testimony by deposition, was struck out.
Subsec. (h). Act Aug. 26, 1935, § 202, struck out subsec. (h) which related to the power of the Commission to perform any and all acts necessary and proper for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
1930—Subsec. (d). Act June 23, 1930, inserted sentence respecting contents of report.


Change of Name
Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, 61 Stat. 501. Section 205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of act Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 641. Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956, enacted “Title 10, Armed Forces” which in sections 3010 to 3013 continued military Department of the Army under administrative supervision of Secretary of the Army.

Effective Date of 1986 AmendmentPub. L. 99–495, § 18, Oct. 16, 1986, 100 Stat. 1259, provided that: “Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the amendments made by this Act [enacting section 823b of this title and amending this section and sections 800, 802, 803, 807, 808, 817, 823a, 824a–3, and 824j of this title] shall take effect with respect to each license, permit, or exemption issued under the Federal Power Act after the enactment of this Act [Oct. 16, 1986]. The amendments made by sections 6 and 12 of this Act [enacting section 823b of this title and amending section 817 of this title] shall apply to licenses, permits, and exemptions without regard to when issued.”


Savings ProvisionPub. L. 99–495, § 17(a), Oct. 16, 1986, 100 Stat. 1259, provided that: 
“Nothing in this Act [see Short Title of 1986 Amendment note set out under section 791a of this title] shall be construed as authorizing the appropriation of water by any Federal, State, or local agency, Indian tribe, or any other entity or individual. Nor shall any provision of this Act—
“(1) affect the rights or jurisdiction of the United States, the States, Indian tribes, or other entities over waters of any river or stream or over any ground water resource;

“(2) alter, amend, repeal, interpret, modify, or be in conflict with any interstate compact made by the States;

“(3) alter or establish the respective rights of States, the United States, Indian tribes, or any person with respect to any water or water-related right;

“(4) affect, expand, or create rights to use transmission facilities owned by the Federal Government;

“(5) alter, amend, repeal, interpret, modify, or be in conflict with, the Treaty rights or other rights of any Indian tribe;

“(6) permit the filing of any competing application in any relicensing proceeding where the time for filing a competing application expired before the enactment of this Act [Oct. 16, 1986]; or

“(7) modify, supersede, or affect the Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act [16 U.S.C. 839 et seq.].”




Termination of Reporting RequirementsFor termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec. (d) of this section relating to submitting a classified annual report to Congress showing permits and licenses issued under this subchapter, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66, as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and page 91 of House Document No. 103–7.

Promoting Hydropower Development at Nonpowered Dams and Closed Loop Pumped Storage ProjectsPub. L. 113–23, § 6, Aug. 9, 2013, 127 Stat. 495, provided that:
“(a) In General.—To improve the regulatory process and reduce delays and costs for hydropower development at nonpowered dams and closed loop pumped storage projects, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (referred to in this section as the ‘Commission’) shall investigate the feasibility of the issuance of a license for hydropower development at nonpowered dams and closed loop pumped storage projects in a 2-year period (referred to in this section as a ‘2-year process’). Such a 2-year process shall include any prefiling licensing process of the Commission.

“(b) Workshops and Pilots.—The Commission shall—“(1) not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 9, 2013], hold an initial workshop to solicit public comment and recommendations on how to implement a 2-year process;

“(2) develop criteria for identifying projects featuring hydropower development at nonpowered dams and closed loop pumped storage projects that may be appropriate for licensing within a 2-year process;

“(3) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, develop and implement pilot projects to test a 2-year process, if practicable; and

“(4) not later than 3 years after the date of implementation of the final pilot project testing a 2-year process, hold a final workshop to solicit public comment on the effectiveness of each tested 2-year process.


“(c) Memorandum of Understanding.—The Commission shall, to the extent practicable, enter into a memorandum of understanding with any applicable Federal or State agency to implement a pilot project described in subsection (b).

“(d) Reports.—“(1) Pilot projects not implemented.—If the Commission determines that no pilot project described in subsection (b) is practicable because no 2-year process is practicable, not later than 240 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 9, 2013], the Commission shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report that—“(A) describes the public comments received as part of the initial workshop held under subsection (b)(1); and

“(B) identifies the process, legal, environmental, economic, and other issues that justify the determination of the Commission that no 2-year process is practicable, with recommendations on how Congress may address or remedy the identified issues.


“(2) Pilot projects implemented.—If the Commission develops and implements pilot projects involving a 2-year process, not later than 60 days after the date of completion of the final workshop held under subsection (b)(4), the Commission shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report that—“(A) describes the outcomes of the pilot projects;

“(B) describes the public comments from the final workshop on the effectiveness of each tested 2-year process; and

“(C)(i) outlines how the Commission will adopt policies under existing law (including regulations) that result in a 2-year process for appropriate projects;

“(ii) outlines how the Commission will issue new regulations to adopt a 2-year process for appropriate projects; or

“(iii) identifies the process, legal, environmental, economic, and other issues that justify a determination of the Commission that no 2-year process is practicable, with recommendations on how Congress may address or remedy the identified issues.”







Improvement at Existing Federal FacilitiesPub. L. 102–486, title XXIV, § 2404, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3097, as amended by Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(37), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4585; Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1052(h), Dec. 21, 1995, 109 Stat. 718, directed Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of the Army, in consultation with Secretary of Energy, to perform reconnaissance level studies, for each of the Nation’s principal river basins, of cost effective opportunities to increase hydropower production at existing federally-owned or operated water regulation, storage, and conveyance facilities, with such studies to be completed within 2 years after Oct. 24, 1992, and transmitted to Congress, further provided that in cases where such studies had been prepared by any agency of the United States and published within ten years prior to Oct. 24, 1992, Secretary of the Interior, or Secretary of the Army, could choose to rely on information developed by prior studies rather than conduct new studies, and further provided for appropriations for fiscal years 1993 to 1995.

Water Conservation and Energy ProductionPub. L. 102–486, title XXIV, § 2405, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3098, provided that:
“(a) Studies.—The Secretary of the Interior, acting pursuant to the Federal reclamation laws (Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388) [see Short Title note under section 371 of Title 43, Public Lands], and Acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof, is authorized and directed to conduct feasibility investigations of opportunities to increase the amount of hydroelectric energy available for marketing by the Secretary from Federal hydroelectric power generation facilities resulting from a reduction in the consumptive use of such power for Federal reclamation project purposes or as a result of an increase in the amount of water available for such generation because of water conservation efforts on Federal reclamation projects or a combination thereof. The Secretary of the Interior is further authorized and directed to conduct feasibility investigations of opportunities to mitigate damages to or enhance fish and wildlife as a result of increasing the amount of water available for such purposes because of water conservation efforts on Federal reclamation projects. Such feasibility investigations shall include, but not be limited to—“(1) an analysis of the technical, environmental, and economic feasibility of reducing the amount of water diverted upstream of such Federal hydroelectric power generation facilities by Federal reclamation projects;

“(2) an estimate of the reduction, if any, of project power consumed as a result of the decreased amount of diversion;

“(3) an estimate of the increase in the amount of electrical energy and related revenues which would result from the marketing of such power by the Secretary;

“(4) an estimate of the fish and wildlife benefits which would result from the decreased or modified diversions;

“(5) a finding by the Secretary of the Interior that the activities proposed in the feasibility study can be carried out in accordance with applicable Federal and State law, interstate compacts and the contractual obligations of the Secretary; and

“(6) a finding by the affected Federal Power Marketing Administrator that the hydroelectric component of the proposed water conservation feature is cost-effective and that the affected Administrator is able to market the hydro-electric power expected to be generated.


“(b) Consultation.—In preparing feasibility studies pursuant to this section, the Secretary of the Interior shall consult with, and seek the recommendations of, affected State, local and Indian tribal interests, and shall provide for appropriate public comment.

“(c) Authorization.—There is hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.”




Projects on Fresh Waters in State of HawaiiPub. L. 102–486, title XXIV, § 2408, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3100, directed Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, in consultation with State of Hawaii, to carry out study of hydroelectric licensing in State of Hawaii for purposes of considering whether such licensing should be transferred to State, and directed Commission to complete study and submit report containing results of study to Congress within 18 months after Oct. 24, 1992.


