§ 7311. Repair or maintenance of naval vessels: handling of hazardous waste(a) Contractual Provisions.—The Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that each contract entered into for work on a naval vessel (other than new construction) includes the following provisions:(1) Identification of hazardous wastes.—A provision in which the Navy identifies the types and amounts of hazardous wastes that are required to be removed by the contractor from the vessel, or that are expected to be generated, during the performance of work under the contract, with such identification by the Navy to be in a form sufficient to enable the contractor to comply with Federal and State laws and regulations on the removal, handling, storage, transportation, or disposal of hazardous waste.

(2) Compensation.—A provision specifying that the contractor shall be compensated under the contract for work performed by the contractor for duties of the contractor specified under paragraph (3).

(3) Statement of work.—A provision specifying the responsibilities of the Navy and of the contractor, respectively, for the removal (including the handling, storage, transportation, and disposal) of hazardous wastes.

(4) Accountability for hazardous wastes.—(A) A provision specifying the following:(i) In any case in which the Navy is the sole generator of hazardous waste that is removed, handled, stored, transported, or disposed of by the contractor in the performance of the contract, all contracts, manifests, invoices, and other documents related to the removal, handling, storage, transportation, or disposal of such hazardous waste shall bear a generator identification number issued to the Navy pursuant to applicable law.

(ii) In any case in which the contractor is the sole generator of hazardous waste that is removed, handled, stored, transported, or disposed of by the contractor in the performance of the contract, all contracts, manifests, invoices, and other documents related to the removal, handling, storage, transportation, or disposal of such hazardous waste shall bear a generator identification number issued to the contractor pursuant to applicable law.

(iii) In any case in which both the Navy and the contractor are generators of hazardous waste that is removed, handled, stored, transported, or disposed of by the contractor in the performance of the contract, all contracts, manifests, invoices, and other documents related to the removal, handling, storage, transportation, or disposal of such hazardous waste shall bear both a generator identification number issued to the Navy and a generator identification number issued to the contractor pursuant to applicable law.


(B) A determination under this paragraph of whether the Navy is a generator, a contractor is a generator, or both the Navy and a contractor are generators, shall be made in the same manner provided under subtitle C of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6921 et seq.) and regulations promulgated under that subtitle.



(b) Renegotiation of Contract.—The Secretary of the Navy shall renegotiate a contract described in subsection (a) if—(1) the contractor, during the performance of work under the contract, discovers hazardous wastes different in type or amount from those identified in the contract; and

(2) those hazardous wastes originated on, or resulted from material furnished by the Government for, the naval vessel on which the work is being performed.


(c) Removal of Wastes.—The Secretary of the Navy shall remove known hazardous wastes from a vessel before the vessel’s arrival at a contractor’s facility for performance of a contract, to the extent such removal is feasible.

(d) Relationship to Solid Waste Disposal Act.—Nothing in this section shall be construed as altering or otherwise affecting those provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) that relate to generators of hazardous waste. For purposes of this section, any term used in this section for which a definition is provided by the Solid Waste Disposal Act (or regulations promulgated pursuant to such Act) has the meaning provided by that Act or regulations.

(Added Pub. L. 99–661, div. A, title XII, § 1202(a), Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3967; amended Pub. L. 101–189, div. A, title XVI, § 1611(a), Nov. 29, 1989, 103 Stat. 1599.)


References in TextThe Solid Waste Disposal Act, referred to in subsecs. (a)(4)(B) and (d), is title II of Pub. L. 89–272, Oct. 20, 1965, 79 Stat. 997, as amended generally by Pub. L. 94–580, § 2, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2795, which is classified generally to chapter 82 (§ 6901 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. Subtitle C of the Solid Waste Disposal Act is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 6921 et seq.) of chapter 82 of Title 42. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6901 of Title 42 and Tables.

Amendments1989—Pub. L. 101–189 amended section generally, substituting subsecs. (a) to (d) for former subsecs. (a) relating to contractual provisions, and (b) relating to renegotiation of contract.

Effective Date of 1989 AmendmentPub. L. 101–189, div. A, title XVI, § 1611(b), Nov. 29, 1989, 103 Stat. 1601, provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply with respect to any contract for work on a naval vessel (other than new construction) entered into after the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 29, 1989].”



