§ 635a–4. Guarantees for export accounts receivable and inventory
The Export-Import Bank of the United States is authorized and directed to establish a program to provide guarantees for loans extended by financial institutions or other public or private creditors to export trading companies as defined in section 1843(c)(14)(F)(i) of this title, or to other exporters, when such loans are secured by export accounts receivable, inventories of exportable goods, accounts receivable from leases, performance contracts, grant commitments, participation fees, member dues, revenue from publications, or such other collateral as the Board of Directors may deem appropriate, and when in the judgment of the Board of Directors—(1) the private credit market is not providing adequate financing to enable otherwise creditworthy export trading companies or exporters to consummate export transactions; and

(2) such guarantees would facilitate expansion of exports which would not otherwise occur.


The Board of Directors shall attempt to insure that a major share of any loan guarantees ultimately serves to promote exports from small, medium-size, and minority businesses or agricultural concerns. Guarantees provided under the authority of this section shall be subject to limitations contained in annual appropriations Acts.
(Pub. L. 97–290, title II, § 206, Oct. 8, 1982, 96 Stat. 1239; Pub. L. 98–181, title I [title VI, § 616(b)], Nov. 30, 1983, 97 Stat. 1257.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Bank Export Services Act, and not as part of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 which comprises this subchapter.

Amendments1983—Pub. L. 98–181 substituted “export accounts receivable, inventories of exportable goods, accounts receivable from leases, performance contracts, grant commitments, participation fees, member dues, revenue from publications, or such other collateral as the Board of Directors may deem appropriate,” for “export accounts receivable or inventories of exportable goods”.


