§ 2578. Notice of United States participation in international standard-setting activities(a) In generalThe President shall designate an agency to be responsible for informing the public of the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of each international standard-setting organization.


(b) NotificationNot later than June 1 of each year, the agency designated under subsection (a) of this section with respect to each international standard-setting organization shall publish notice in the Federal Register of the information specified in subsection (c) of this section with respect to that organization. The notice shall cover the period ending on June 1 of the year in which the notice is published, and beginning on the date of the preceding notice under this subsection, except that the first such notice shall cover the 1-year period ending on the date of the notice.


(c) Required informationThe information to be provided in the notice under subsection (b) of this section is—(1) the sanitary or phytosanitary standards under consideration or planned for consideration by that organization;

(2) for each sanitary or phytosanitary standard specified in paragraph (1)—(A) a description of the consideration or planned consideration of the standard;

(B) whether the United States is participating or plans to participate in the consideration of the standard;

(C) the agenda for the United States participation, if any; and

(D) the agency responsible for representing the United States with respect to the standard.



(d) Public commentThe agency specified in subsection (c)(2)(D) of this section shall provide an opportunity for public comment with respect to the standards for which the agency is responsible and shall take the comments into account in participating in the consideration of the standards and in proposing matters to be considered by the organization.


(Pub. L. 96–39, title IV, § 491, as added Pub. L. 103–465, title IV, § 432, Dec. 8, 1994, 108 Stat. 4970.)

Effective DatePart effective on the date of entry into force of the WTO Agreement with respect to the United States [Jan. 1, 1995], except as otherwise provided, see section 451 of Pub. L. 103–465, set out as a note under section 3601 of this title.

Designation of AgencySecretary of Agriculture designated under this section as official responsible for informing public of sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of each international standard-setting organization, see par. (4) of Proc. No. 6780, Mar. 23, 1995, 60 F.R. 15847, set out as a note under section 3511 of this title.


