“SEC. 201. TARIFF MODIFICATIONS.“(a) Tariff Modifications Provided for in the Agreement.—“(1) Proclamation authority.—The President may proclaim—“(A) such modifications or continuation of any duty,

“(B) such continuation of duty-free or excise treatment, or

“(C) such additional duties,


as the President determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out or apply articles 3.3, 3.7, 3.9, article 3.20 (8), (9), (10), and (11), and Annex 3.3 of the Agreement.

“(2) Effect on chilean gsp status.—Notwithstanding section 502(a)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2462(a)(1)), the President shall terminate the designation of Chile as a beneficiary developing country for purposes of title V of the Trade Act of 1974 [19 U.S.C. 2461 et seq.] on the date of entry into force of the Agreement [Jan. 1, 2004].


“(b) Other Tariff Modifications.—Subject to the consultation and layover provisions of section 103(a), the President may proclaim—“(1) such modifications or continuation of any duty,

“(2) such modifications as the United States may agree to with Chile regarding the staging of any duty treatment set forth in Annex 3.3 of the Agreement,

“(3) such continuation of duty-free or excise treatment, or

“(4) such additional duties,


as the President determines to be necessary or appropriate to maintain the general level of reciprocal and mutually advantageous concessions with respect to Chile provided for by the Agreement.

“(c) Additional Tariffs on Agricultural Safeguard Goods.—“(1) In general.—In addition to any duty proclaimed under subsection (a) or (b), and subject to paragraphs (3) through (5), the Secretary of the Treasury shall assess a duty, in the amount prescribed under paragraph (2), on an agricultural safeguard good if the Secretary of the Treasury determines that the unit import price of the good when it enters the United States, determined on an F.O.B. basis, is less than the trigger price indicated for that good in Annex 3.18 of the Agreement or any amendment thereto.

“(2) Calculation of additional duty.—The amount of the additional duty assessed under this subsection shall be determined as follows:“(A) If the difference between the unit import price and the trigger price is less than, or equal to, 10 percent of the trigger price, no additional duty shall be imposed.

“(B) If the difference between the unit import price and the trigger price is greater than 10 percent, but less than or equal to 40 percent, of the trigger price, the additional duty shall be equal to 30 percent of the difference between the preferential tariff rate and the column 1 general rate of duty imposed under the HTS on like articles at the time the additional duty is imposed.

“(C) If the difference between the unit import price and the trigger price is greater than 40 percent, but less than or equal to 60 percent, of the trigger price, the additional duty shall be equal to 50 percent of the difference between the preferential tariff rate and the column 1 general rate of duty imposed under the HTS on like articles at the time the additional duty is imposed.

“(D) If the difference between the unit import price and the trigger price is greater than 60 percent, but less than or equal to 75 percent, of the trigger price, the additional duty shall be equal to 70 percent of the difference between the preferential tariff rate and the column 1 general rate of duty imposed under the HTS on like articles at the time the additional duty is imposed.

“(E) If the difference between the unit import price and the trigger price is greater than 75 percent of the trigger price, the additional duty shall be equal to 100 percent of the difference between the preferential tariff rate and the column 1 general rate of duty imposed under the HTS on like articles at the time the additional duty is imposed.


“(3) Exceptions.—No additional duty under this subsection shall be assessed on an agricultural safeguard good if, at the time of entry, the good is subject to import relief under—“(A) subtitle A of title III of this Act; or

“(B) chapter 1 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2251 et seq.).


“(4) Termination.—This subsection shall cease to apply on the date that is 12 years after the date on which the Agreement enters into force [Jan. 1, 2004].

“(5) Tariff-rate quotas.—If an agricultural safeguard good is subject to a tariff-rate quota, and the in-quota duty rate for the good proclaimed pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) is zero, any additional duty assessed under this subsection shall be applied only to over-quota imports of the good.

“(6) Notice.—Not later than 60 days after the Secretary of the Treasury first assesses additional duties on an agricultural safeguard good under this subsection, the Secretary shall notify the Government of Chile in writing of such action and shall provide to the Government of Chile data supporting the assessment of additional duties.

“(7) Modification of trigger prices.—Not later than 60 calendar days before agreeing with the Government of Chile pursuant to article 3.18(2)(b) of the Agreement on a modification to a trigger price for a good listed in Annex 3.18 of the Agreement, the President shall notify the Committees on Ways and Means and Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Finance and Agriculture of the Senate of the proposed modification and the reasons therefor.

“(8) Definitions.—In this subsection:“(A) Agricultural safeguard good.—The term ‘agricultural safeguard good’ means a good—“(i) that qualifies as an originating good under section 202;

“(ii) that is included in the United States Agricultural Safeguard Product List set forth in Annex 3.18 of the Agreement; and

“(iii) for which a claim for preferential tariff treatment under the Agreement has been made.


“(B) F.O.B.—The term ‘F.O.B.’ means free on board, regardless of the mode of transportation, at the point of direct shipment by the seller to the buyer.

“(C) Unit import price.—The term ‘unit import price’ means the price expressed in dollars per kilogram.



“(d) Conversion to Ad Valorem Rates.—For purposes of subsections (a) and (b), with respect to any good for which the base rate in the Schedule of the United States to Annex 3.3 of the Agreement is a specific or compound rate of duty, the President may substitute for the base rate an ad valorem rate that the President determines to be equivalent to the base rate.

