§ 70e. Enforcement(a) Enforcement by Federal Trade CommissionExcept as otherwise specifically provided herein, this subchapter shall be enforced by the Federal Trade Commission under rules, regulations, and procedure provided for in the Federal Trade Commission Act [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.].


(b) Terms of Federal Trade Commission Act incorporated into this subchapterThe Commission is authorized and directed to prevent any person from violating the provisions of this subchapter in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act [15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.] were incorporated into and made a part of this subchapter; and any such person violating the provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in said Federal Trade Commission Act, in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though the applicable terms and provisions of the said Federal Trade Commission Act were incorporated into and made a part of this subchapter.


(c) Rules and regulations by Federal Trade CommissionThe Commission is authorized and directed to make such rules and regulations, including the establishment of generic names of manufactured fibers, under and in pursuance of the terms of this subchapter as may be necessary and proper for administration and enforcement.


(d) Inspection, analyses, tests, etc.The Commission is authorized to cause inspections, analyses, tests, and examinations to be made of any product subject to this subchapter.


(Pub. L. 85–897, § 7, Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1721.)


References in TextThe Federal Trade Commission Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), is act Sept. 26, 1914, ch. 311, 38 Stat. 717, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 41 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 58 of this title and Tables.


