§ 410hhh–6. Acquisition of property and boundary adjustments(a) Acquisition authority(1) Within the area depicted on the map as the “Acquisition Area” or the national monument, the Secretary may acquire lands and interests therein by purchase, donation, transfer from another Federal agency, or exchange: Provided, That lands or interests therein may only be acquired with the consent of the owner thereof.

(2) Lands or interests therein owned by the State of Colorado, or a political subdivision thereof, may only be acquired by donation or exchange.


(b) Boundary adjustmentAs soon as practicable after the acquisition of any land or interest under this section, the Secretary shall modify the boundary of the unit to which the land is transferred pursuant to subsection (b) 11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection (c)”. of this section to include any land or interest acquired.


(c) Administration of acquired lands(1) General authorityUpon acquisition of lands under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall, as appropriate—(A) transfer administrative jurisdiction of the lands to the National Park Service—(i) for addition to and management as part of the Great Sand Dunes National Monument, or

(ii) for addition to and management as part of the Great Sand Dunes National Park (after designation of the Park) or the Great Sand Dunes National Preserve; or


(B) transfer administrative jurisdiction of the lands to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for addition to and administration as part of the Baca National Wildlife Refuge.


(2) Forest service administration(A) Any lands acquired within the area depicted on the map as being located within Zone B shall be transferred to the Secretary of Agriculture and shall be added to and managed as part of the Rio Grande National Forest.

(B) For the purposes of section 460l–9 of this title, the boundaries of the Rio Grande National Forest, as revised by the transfer of land under paragraph (A), shall be considered to be the boundaries of the national forest.



(Pub. L. 106–530, § 8, Nov. 22, 2000, 114 Stat. 2532.)
