§ 2610. Inspections and subpoenas(a) In generalFor purposes of administering this chapter, the Administrator, and any duly designated representative of the Administrator, may inspect any establishment, facility, or other premises in which chemical substances, mixtures, or products subject to subchapter IV of this chapter are manufactured, processed, stored, or held before or after their distribution in commerce and any conveyance being used to transport chemical substances, mixtures, such products, or such articles in connection with distribution in commerce. Such an inspection may only be made upon the presentation of appropriate credentials and of a written notice to the owner, operator, or agent in charge of the premises or conveyance to be inspected. A separate notice shall be given for each such inspection, but a notice shall not be required for each entry made during the period covered by the inspection. Each such inspection shall be commenced and completed with reasonable promptness and shall be conducted at reasonable times, within reasonable limits, and in a reasonable manner.


(b) Scope(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), an inspection conducted under subsection (a) of this section shall extend to all things within the premises or conveyance inspected (including records, files, papers, processes, controls, and facilities) bearing on whether the requirements of this chapter applicable to the chemical substances, mixtures, or products subject to subchapter IV of this chapter within such premises or conveyance have been complied with.

(2) No inspection under subsection (a) of this section shall extend to—(A) financial data,

(B) sales data (other than shipment data),

(C) pricing data,

(D) personnel data, or

(E) research data (other than data required by this chapter or under a rule promulgated thereunder),


unless the nature and extent of such data are described with reasonable specificity in the written notice required by subsection (a) of this section for such inspection.


(c) SubpoenasIn carrying out this chapter, the Administrator may by subpoena require the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of reports, papers, documents, answers to questions, and other information that the Administrator deems necessary. Witnesses shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the courts of the United States. In the event of contumacy, failure, or refusal of any person to obey any such subpoena, any district court of the United States in which venue is proper shall have jurisdiction to order any such person to comply with such subpoena. Any failure to obey such an order of the court is punishable by the court as a contempt thereof.


(Pub. L. 94–469, title I, § 11, Oct. 11, 1976, 90 Stat. 2032; renumbered title I, Pub. L. 99–519, § 3(c)(1), Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2989; amended Pub. L. 102–550, title X, § 1021(b)(2), (3), Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 3923.)

Amendments1992—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 102–550, § 1021(b)(2), in first sentence, substituted “substances, mixtures, or products subject to subchapter IV of this chapter” for “substances or mixtures” and inserted “such products,” before “or such articles”.
Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 102–550, § 1021(b)(3), substituted “chemical substances, mixtures, or products subject to subchapter IV of this chapter” for “chemical substances or mixtures”.


