§ 669h–2. Multistate conservation grant program(a) In general(1) Amount for grantsNot more than $3,000,000 of the revenues covered into the fund for a fiscal year shall be available to the Secretary of the Interior for making multistate conservation project grants in accordance with this section.


(2) Period of availability; apportionment(A) Period of availabilityAmounts made available under paragraph (1) shall remain available for making grants only for the first fiscal year for which the amount is made available and the following fiscal year.


(B) ApportionmentAt the end of the period of availability under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of the Interior shall apportion any amounts that remain available among the States in the manner specified in section 669c(b) of this title for use by the States in the same manner as funds apportioned under section 669c(b) of this title.




(b) Selection of projects(1) States or entities to be benefitedA project shall not be eligible for a grant under this section unless the project will benefit—(A) at least 26 States;

(B) a majority of the States in a region of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service; or

(C) a regional association of State fish and game departments.


(2) Use of submitted priority list of projectsThe Secretary of the Interior may make grants under this section only for projects identified on a priority list of wildlife restoration projects described in paragraph (3).


(3) Priority list of projectsA priority list referred to in paragraph (2) is a priority list of wildlife restoration projects that the International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies—(A) prepares through a committee comprised of the heads of State fish and game departments (or their designees), in consultation with—(i) nongovernmental organizations that represent conservation organizations;

(ii) sportsmen organizations; and

(iii) industries that support or promote hunting, trapping, recreational shooting, bow hunting, or archery;


(B) approves by vote of a majority of the heads of State fish and game departments (or their designees); and

(C) not later than October 1 of each fiscal year, submits to the Assistant Director for Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs.


(4) PublicationThe Assistant Director for Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Programs shall publish in the Federal Register each priority list submitted under paragraph (3)(C).



(c) Eligible grantees(1) In generalThe Secretary of the Interior may make a grant under this section only to—(A) a State or group of States;

(B) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, or a State or group of States, for the purpose of carrying out the National Survey of Fishing, Hunting, and Wildlife-Associated Recreation; and

(C) subject to paragraph (2), a nongovernmental organization.


(2) Nongovernmental organizations(A) In generalAny nongovernmental organization that applies for a grant under this section shall submit with the application to the International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies a certification that the organization—(i) will not use the grant funds to fund, in whole or in part, any activity of the organization that promotes or encourages opposition to the regulated hunting or trapping of wildlife; and

(ii) will use the grant funds in compliance with subsection (d) of this section.


(B) Penalties for certain activitiesAny nongovernmental organization that is found to use grant funds in violation of subparagraph (A) shall return all funds received under this section and be subject to any other applicable penalties under law.




(d) Use of grantsA grant under this section shall not be used, in whole or in part, for an activity, project, or program that promotes or encourages opposition to the regulated hunting or trapping of wildlife.


(e) Nonapplicability of Federal Advisory Committee ActThe Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to any activity carried out under this section.


(Sept. 2, 1937, ch. 899, § 11, as added Pub. L. 106–408, title I, § 113, Nov. 1, 2000, 114 Stat. 1767.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (e), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 11 of act Sept. 2, 1937, was classified to section 669j of this title prior to repeal by act Aug. 7, 1946.


