§ 408. Equipment and training of foreign personnel to assist in Department of Defense accounting for missing United States Government personnel(a) In General.—The Secretary of Defense may provide assistance to any foreign nation to assist the Department of Defense with recovery of and accounting for missing United States Government personnel.

(b) Types of Assistance.—The assistance provided under subsection (a) may include the following:(1) Equipment.

(2) Supplies.

(3) Services.

(4) Training of personnel.


(c) Approval by Secretary of State.—Assistance may not be provided under this section to any foreign nation unless the Secretary of State specifically approves the provision of such assistance.

(d) Limitation.—The amount of assistance provided under this section in any fiscal year may not exceed $1,000,000.

(e) Construction With Other Assistance.—The authority to provide assistance under this section is in addition to any other authority to provide assistance to foreign nations under law.

(f) Congressional Oversight.—Whenever the Secretary of Defense provides assistance to a foreign nation under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the assistance provided. Each such report shall identify the nation to which the assistance was provided and include a description of the type and amount of the assistance provided.

(Added Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title XII, § 1207(a), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 367; amended Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title X, § 1064(5), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1587.)

Amendments2011—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 112–81 amended subsec. (f) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:
“(1) Not later than December 31 each year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the assistance provided under this section during the fiscal year ending in such year.
“(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include, for the fiscal year covered by such report, the following:
“(A) A listing of each foreign nation provided assistance under this section.
“(B) For each nation so provided assistance, a description of the type and amount of such assistance.”


