§ 430f–6. Corinth Unit of the Shiloh National Military Park; findings and purposes(a) FindingsCongress finds that—(1) in 1996, Congress authorized the establishment and construction of a center—(A) to facilitate the interpretation of the Siege and Battle of Corinth and other Civil War actions in the area in and around the city of Corinth, Mississippi; and

(B) to enhance public understanding of the significance of the Corinth campaign and the Civil War relative to the western theater of operations, in cooperation with—(i) State or local governmental entities;

(ii) private organizations; and

(iii) individuals;



(2) the Corinth Battlefield was ranked as a priority 1 battlefield having critical need for coordinated nationwide action by the year 2000 by the Civil War Sites Advisory Commission in its report on Civil War Battlefields of the United States;

(3) there is a national interest in protecting and preserving sites of historic significance associated with the Civil War; and

(4) the States of Mississippi and Tennessee and their respective local units of government—(A) have the authority to prevent or minimize adverse uses of these historic resources; and

(B) can play a significant role in the protection of the historic resources related to the Civil War battles fought in the area in and around the city of Corinth.



(b) PurposesThe purposes of sections 430f–6 to 430f–12 of this title are—(1) to establish the Corinth Unit of the Shiloh National Military Park—(A) in the city of Corinth, Mississippi; and

(B) in the State of Tennessee;


(2) to direct the Secretary of the Interior to manage, protect, and interpret the resources associated with the Civil War Siege and the Battle of Corinth that occurred in and around the city of Corinth, in cooperation with—(A) the State of Mississippi;

(B) the State of Tennessee;

(C) the city of Corinth, Mississippi;

(D) other public entities; and

(E) the private sector; and


(3) to authorize a special resource study to identify other Civil War sites in and around the city of Corinth that—(A) are consistent with the themes of the Siege and Battle of Corinth;

(B) meet the criteria for designation as a unit of the National Park System; and

(C) are considered appropriate for inclusion in the Unit.



(Pub. L. 106–271, § 2, Sept. 22, 2000, 114 Stat. 792.)

Short TitlePub. L. 106–271, § 1, Sept. 22, 2000, 114 Stat. 792, provided that: “This Act [enacting this section and sections 430f–7 to 430f–12 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Corinth Battlefield Preservation Act of 2000’.”



