§ 278g–5. Enterprise integration initiative(a) EstablishmentThe Director shall establish an initiative for advancing enterprise integration within the United States. In carrying out this section, the Director shall involve, as appropriate, the various units of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, including the National Institute of Standards and Technology laboratories (including the Building and Fire Research Laboratory), the Manufacturing Extension Partnership program 11 See Change of Name note below. established under sections 278k and 278l of this title, and the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Program. This initiative shall build upon ongoing efforts of the National Institute of Standards and Technology and of the private sector, shall involve consortia that include government and industry, and shall address the enterprise integration needs of each United States major manufacturing industry at the earliest possible date.


(b) AssessmentFor each major manufacturing industry, the Director may work with industry, trade associations, professional societies, and others as appropriate, to identify enterprise integration standardization and implementation activities underway in the United States and abroad that affect that industry and to assess the current state of enterprise integration within that industry. The Director may assist in the development of roadmaps to permit supply chains within the industry to operate as an integrated electronic enterprise. The roadmaps shall be based on voluntary consensus standards.


(c) ReportsWithin 180 days after November 5, 2002, and annually thereafter, the Director shall submit to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report on the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s activities under subsection (b) of this section.


(d) Authorized activitiesIn order to carry out this Act, the Director may work with industry, trade associations, professional societies, and others as appropriate—(1) to raise awareness in the United States, including awareness by businesses that are majority owned by women, minorities, or both, of enterprise integration activities in the United States and abroad, including by the convening of conferences;

(2) on the development of enterprise integration roadmaps;

(3) to support the development, testing, promulgation, integration, adoption, and upgrading of standards related to enterprise integration including application protocols; and

(4) to provide technical assistance and, if necessary, financial support to small- and medium-sized businesses that set up pilot projects in enterprise integration.


(e) Manufacturing Extension ProgramThe Director shall ensure that the Manufacturing Extension Program is prepared to advise small- and medium-sized businesses on how to acquire the expertise, equipment, and training necessary to participate fully in supply chains using enterprise integration.


(Pub. L. 107–277, § 3, Nov. 5, 2002, 116 Stat. 1936.)


References in TextThis Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is Pub. L. 107–277, Nov. 5, 2002, 116 Stat. 1936, which enacted this section and provisions set out as a note under this section. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Enterprise Integration Act of 2002, and not as part of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act which comprises this chapter.


Change of Name
The Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program, referred to in subsec. (a), redesignated the Hollings Manufacturing Partnership Program by provision of title II of div. B of Pub. L. 108–447, formerly set out as a note under section 278k of this title. Program now known as the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership, see section 278k(i) of this title.
Committee on Science of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007. Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.

Enterprise IntegrationPub. L. 107–277, Nov. 5, 2002, 116 Stat. 1936, provided that:
“SECTION. 1. SHORT TITLE.“This Act [enacting this section and this note] may be cited as the ‘Enterprise Integration Act of 2002’.

