§ 1486. Other citizens of United States(a) If local commercial mortuary services and supplies are not available, or if he believes that their cost is prohibitive, the Secretary concerned may furnish those services and supplies on a reimbursable basis in the case of any of the following citizens of the United States who die outside the United States:(1) Any employee of a humanitarian agency accredited to the armed forces, such as the American Red Cross and the United Services Organization.

(2) Any civilian performing a service directly for the Secretary because of employment by an agency under a contract with the Secretary.

(3) Any officer or member of a crew of a merchant vessel operated by or for the United States through the Secretary.

(4) Any person who is on duty with an armed force under the jurisdiction of the Secretary and who is paid from non-appropriated funds.

(5) Upon the specific request of the Department of State, any person not otherwise covered by this section.

(6) Any dependent of a person who is covered by this section, if the dependent is living outside the United States with that person at the time of death.


(b) The Secretary may furnish transportation of the remains of persons covered by this section, on a reimbursable basis, to a port of entry in the United States.

(c) Reimbursement for services, supplies, and transportation furnished under this section shall be collected and credited to appropriations available, at the time of reimbursement, for those services, supplies, and transportation.

(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 114.)











Historical and Revision Notes


Revised sectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


1486(a)  1486(b)5:2158 (1st sentence as applicable to armed forces).5:2158 (2d sentence, as applicable to armed forces).July 15, 1954, ch. 507, § 8 (as applicable to armed forces), 68 Stat. 480.
1486(c)5:2158 (less 1st and 2d sentences, as applicable to armed forces).


In subsection (a), the word “services” is substituted for the word “facilities”. The words “the continental limits * * * or in Alaska” are omitted as covered by definition of “United States” in section 101(1) of this title. In clause (3), the word “masters” is omitted as covered by the word “officer”. In clause (4), the words “under the jurisdiction of the Secretary” are inserted for clarity. In clause (5), the words “otherwise covered” are substituted for the words “specifically enumerated”. In clause (6), the words “who is covered” are substituted for the words “within the classes enumerated”. The words “outside the United States” are substituted for the word “abroad”. The words “that person” are substituted for the words “the supporting citizen concerned”.
In subsection (b), the word “Government” is omitted as surplusage.
In subsection (c), the words “the authority of” are omitted as surplusage. The words “at the time of reimbursement” are substituted for the word “current”.


