§ 4727. Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee(a) Establishment and purposeThe President shall establish the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee (hereafter in this section referred to as the “TPCC”). The purpose of the TPCC shall be—(1) to provide a unifying framework to coordinate the export promotion and export financing activities of the United States Government; and

(2) to develop a governmentwide strategic plan for carrying out Federal export promotion and export financing programs.


(b) DutiesThe TPCC shall—(1) coordinate the development of the trade promotion policies and programs of the United States Government;

(2) provide a central source of information for the business community on Federal export promotion and export financing programs;

(3) coordinate official trade promotion efforts to ensure better delivery of services to United States businesses, including—(A) information and counseling on United States export promotion and export financing programs and opportunities in foreign markets;

(B) representation of United States business interests abroad; and

(C) assistance with foreign business contacts and projects;


(4) prevent unnecessary duplication in Federal export promotion and export financing activities;

(5) assess the appropriate levels and allocation of resources among agencies in support of export promotion and export financing and provide recommendations to the President based on its assessment; and

(6) carry out such other duties as are deemed to be appropriate, consistent with the purpose of the TPCC.


(c) Strategic planTo carry out subsection (b) of this section, the TPCC shall develop and implement a governmentwide strategic plan for Federal trade promotion efforts. Such plan shall—(1) establish a set of priorities for Federal activities in support of United States exports and explain the rationale for the priorities;

(2) review current Federal programs designed to promote the sale of United States exports in light of the priorities established under paragraph (1) and develop a plan to bring such activities into line with the priorities and to improve coordination of such activities;

(3) identify areas of overlap and duplication among Federal export promotion activities and propose means of eliminating them;

(4) propose to the President an annual unified Federal trade promotion budget that supports the plan for priority activities and improved coordination established under paragraph (2) and eliminates funding for the areas of overlap and duplication identified under paragraph (3);

(5) review efforts by the States (as defined in section 4721(i) of this title) to promote United States exports and propose means of developing cooperation between State and Federal efforts, including co-location, cost-sharing between Federal and State export promotion programs, and sharing of market research data; and

(6) reflect the recommendations of the United States National Tourism Organization to the degree considered appropriate by the TPCC.


(d) Membership(1) In generalMembers of the TPCC shall include representatives from—(A) the Department of Commerce;

(B) the Department of State;

(C) the Department of the Treasury;

(D) the Department of Agriculture;

(E) the Department of Energy;

(F) the Department of Transportation;

(G) the Office of the United States Trade Representative;

(H) the Small Business Administration;

(I) the Agency for International Development;

(J) the Trade and Development Program;

(K) the Overseas Private Investment Corporation;

(L) the Export-Import Bank of the United States; and

(M) at the discretion of the President, such other departments or agencies as may be necessary.


(2) ChairpersonThe Secretary of Commerce shall serve as the chairperson of the TPCC.



(e) Member qualificationsMembers of the TPCC shall be appointed by the heads of their respective departments or agencies. Such members, as well as alternates designated by any members unable to attend a meeting of the TPCC, shall be individuals who exercise significant decisionmaking authority in their respective departments or agencies.


(f) Report to CongressThe chairperson of the TPCC shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives, not later than March 30 of each year, a report describing—(1) the strategic plan developed by the TPCC pursuant to subsection (c) of this section, the implementation of such plan, and any revisions thereto; and

(2) the implementation of sections 5823 and 5824 of title 22 11 See References in Text note below. concerning funding for export promotion activities and the interagency working groups on energy of the TPCC.


(Pub. L. 100–418, title II, § 2312, as added Pub. L. 102–429, title II, § 201, Oct. 21, 1992, 106 Stat. 2199; amended Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1022(a), Dec. 21, 1995, 109 Stat. 713; Pub. L. 104–288, § 8, Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3407; Pub. L. 106–158, § 7, Dec. 9, 1999, 113 Stat. 1747.)


References in TextSections 5823 and 5824 of title 22, referred to in subsec. (f)(2), was, in the original, “sections 303 and 304 of the Freedom for Russia and Emerging Democracies and Open Markets Support Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5823 and 5824)”, and was translated as meaning sections 303 and 304 of the Freedom for Russia and Emerging Eurasian Democracies and Open Markets Support Act of 1992, Pub. L. 102–511, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Amendments1999—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 106–158 substituted “March 30 of each year,” for “September 30, 1995, and annually thereafter,” in introductory provisions.
1996—Subsec. (c)(6). Pub. L. 104–288 added par. (6).
1995—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 104–66 amended heading and text of subsec. (f) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The chairperson of the TPCC shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, not later than September 30, 1993, and annually thereafter, a report describing the strategic plan developed by the TPCC pursuant to subsection (c) of this section, the implementation of such plan, and any revisions thereto.”


Change of Name
Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


Ex. Ord. No. 12870. Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee
Ex. Ord. No. 12870, Sept. 30, 1993, 58 F.R. 51753, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 13286, § 26, Feb. 28, 2003, 68 F.R. 10625, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Export Enhancement Act of 1992 (Public Law 102–429, 106 Stat. 2186) [see Short Title of 1992 Amendment note set out under section 635 of Title 12, Banks and Banking], and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the “Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee” (“TPCC”). The Committee shall comprise representatives of each of the following:
(a) Department of Commerce;
(b) Department of State;
(c) Department of the Treasury;
(d) Department of Agriculture;
(e) Department of Energy;
(f) Department of Transportation;
(g) Department of Defense;
(h) Department of Labor;
(i) Department of the Interior;
(j) Department of Homeland Security;
(k) Agency for International Development;
(l) Trade and Development Agency;
(m) Environmental Protection Agency;
(n) United States Information Agency;
(o) Small Business Administration;
(p) Overseas Private Investment Corporation;
(q) Export-Import Bank of the United States;
(r) Office of the United States Trade Representative;
(s) Council of Economic Advisers;
(t) Office of Management and Budget;
(u) National Economic Council;
(v) National Security Council; and
(w) at the discretion of the President, such other departments or agencies as may be necessary.
Members of the TPCC shall be appointed by the heads of their respective departments or agencies. Such members, as well as their designated alternatives, shall be individuals who exercise significant decision-making authority in their respective departments or agencies.
Sec. 2. Chairperson. The Secretary of Commerce shall be the chairperson of the TPCC.
Sec. 3. Purpose. The purpose of the TPCC shall be to provide a unifying framework to coordinate the export promotion and export financing activities of the United States Government and to develop a governmentwide strategic plan for carrying out such programs.
Sec. 4. Duties. The TPCC shall:
(a) coordinate the development of the trade promotion policies and programs of the United States Government;
(b) provide a central source of information for the business community on Federal export promotion and export financing programs;
(c) coordinate official trade promotion efforts to ensure better delivery of services to U.S. businesses, including:
(1) information and counseling on U.S. export promotion and export financing programs and opportunities in foreign markets;
(2) representation of U.S. business interests abroad; and
(3) assistance with foreign business contacts and projects;
(d) prevent unnecessary duplication in Federal export promotion and export financing activities;
(e) assess the appropriate levels and allocation of resources among agencies in support of export promotion and export financing and provide recommendations, through the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to the President, based on its assessment; and
(f) carry out such other duties as are deemed to be appropriate, consistent with the purpose of the TPCC.
Sec. 5. Strategic Plan. To carry out section 4 of this order, the TPCC shall develop and implement a governmentwide strategic plan for Federal trade promotion efforts. Such plan shall:
(a) establish a set of priorities for Federal activities in support of U.S. exports and explain the rationale for the priorities;
(b) review current Federal programs designed to promote the sale of U.S. exports in light of the priorities established under paragraph (a) of this section and develop a plan to bring such activities into line with those priorities and to improve coordination of such activities;
(c) identify areas of overlap and duplication among Federal export promotion activities and propose means of eliminating them;
(d) propose, through the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, to the President an annual unified Federal trade promotion budget that supports the plan for priority activities and improved coordination established under paragraph (b) of this section and eliminates funding for the areas of overlap and duplication identified under paragraph (c) of this section; and
(e) review efforts by the States to promote U.S. exports and propose means of developing cooperation between State and Federal efforts, including co-location, cost-sharing between Federal and State export promotion programs, and sharing of market research data.
Sec. 6. Report. The chairperson of the TPCC, with the approval of the President, shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, not later than September 30, 1993, and annually thereafter, a report describing the strategic plan developed by the TPCC pursuant to section 5 of this order, the implementation of such a plan, and any revisions to the plan.
[For abolition of United States Information Agency (other than Broadcasting Board of Governors and International Broadcasting Bureau), transfer of functions, and treatment of references thereto, see sections 6531, 6532, and 6551 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.]


Ex. Ord. No. 13534. National Export Initiative
Ex. Ord. No. 13534, Mar. 11, 2010, 75 F.R. 12433, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Export Enhancement Act of 1992, Public Law 102–429, 106 Stat. 2186, and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, in order to enhance and coordinate Federal efforts to facilitate the creation of jobs in the United States through the promotion of exports, and to ensure the effective use of Federal resources in support of these goals, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Policy. The economic and financial crisis has led to the loss of millions of U.S. jobs, and while the economy is beginning to show signs of recovery, millions of Americans remain unemployed or underemployed. Creating jobs in the United States and ensuring a return to sustainable economic growth is the top priority for my Administration. A critical component of stimulating economic growth in the United States is ensuring that U.S. businesses can actively participate in international markets by increasing their exports of goods, services, and agricultural products. Improved export performance will, in turn, create good high-paying jobs.
The National Export Initiative (NEI) shall be an Administration initiative to improve conditions that directly affect the private sector’s ability to export. The NEI will help meet my Administration’s goal of doubling exports over the next 5 years by working to remove trade barriers abroad, by helping firms—especially small businesses—overcome the hurdles to entering new export markets, by assisting with financing, and in general by pursuing a Government-wide approach to export advocacy abroad, among other steps.
Sec. 2. Export Promotion Cabinet. There is established an Export Promotion Cabinet to develop and coordinate the implementation of the NEI. The Export Promotion Cabinet shall consist of:
(a) the Secretary of State;
(b) the Secretary of the Treasury;
(c) the Secretary of Agriculture;
(d) the Secretary of Commerce;
(e) the Secretary of Labor;
(f) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
(g) the United States Trade Representative;
(h) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;
(i) the National Security Advisor;
(j) the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers;
(k) the President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States;
(l) the Administrator of the Small Business Administration;
(m) the President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation;
(n) the Director of the United States Trade and Development Agency; and
(o) the heads of other executive branch departments, agencies, and offices as the President may, from time to time, designate.
The Export Promotion Cabinet shall meet periodically and report to the President on the progress of the NEI. A member of the Export Promotion Cabinet may designate, to perform the NEI-related functions of that member, a senior official from the member’s department or agency who is a full-time officer or employee. The Export Promotion Cabinet may also establish subgroups consisting of its members or their designees, and, as appropriate, representatives of other departments and agencies. The Export Promotion Cabinet shall coordinate with the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee (TPCC), established by Executive Order 12870 of September 30, 1993.
Sec. 3. National Export Initiative. The NEI shall address the following:
(a) Exports by Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs). Members of the Export Promotion Cabinet shall develop programs, in consultation with the TPCC, designed to enhance export assistance to SMEs, including programs that improve information and other technical assistance to first-time exporters and assist current exporters in identifying new export opportunities in international markets.
(b) Federal Export Assistance. Members of the Export Promotion Cabinet, in consultation with the TPCC, shall promote Federal resources currently available to assist exports by U.S. companies.
(c) Trade Missions. The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the TPCC and, to the extent possible, with State and local government officials and the private sector, shall ensure that U.S. Government-led trade missions effectively promote exports by U.S. companies.
(d) Commercial Advocacy. Members of the Export Promotion Cabinet, in consultation with other departments and agencies and in coordination with the Advocacy Center at the Department of Commerce, shall take steps to ensure that the Federal Government’s commercial advocacy effectively promotes exports by U.S. companies.
(e) Increasing Export Credit. The President of the Export-Import Bank, in consultation with other members of the Export Promotion Cabinet, shall take steps to increase the availability of credit to SMEs.
(f) Macroeconomic Rebalancing. The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with other members of the Export Promotion Cabinet, shall promote balanced and strong growth in the global economy through the G20 Financial Ministers’ process or other appropriate mechanisms.
(g) Reducing Barriers to Trade. The United States Trade Representative, in consultation with other members of the Export Promotion Cabinet, shall take steps to improve market access overseas for our manufacturers, farmers, and service providers by actively opening new markets, reducing significant trade barriers, and robustly enforcing our trade agreements.
(h) Export Promotion of Services. Members of the Export Promotion Cabinet shall develop a framework for promoting services trade, including the necessary policy and export promotion tools.
Sec. 4. Report to the President. Not later than 180 days after the date of this order, the Export Promotion Cabinet, through the TPCC, shall provide the President a comprehensive plan to carry out the goals of the NEI. The Chairman of the TPCC shall set forth the steps taken to implement this plan in the annual report to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives required by the Export Enhancement Act of 1992, Public Law 102–249 [102–429], 106 Stat. 2186, and Executive Order 12870, as amended.
Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof, or the status of that department or agency within the Federal Government; or
(ii) functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

Barack Obama.



Ex. Ord. No. 13630. Establishment of an Interagency Task Force on Commercial Advocacy
Ex. Ord. No. 13630, Dec. 6, 2012, 77 F.R. 73893, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to help level the playing field on behalf of U.S. businesses and workers competing for international contracts against foreign firms and to facilitate the growth of sales of U.S. goods and services around the world in support of the National Export Initiative, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Policy. Executive Order 13534 of March 11, 2010, created the National Export Initiative (NEI), which provides unprecedented Federal support for exports of goods and services by American businesses. Executive Order 13534 also established the Export Promotion Cabinet to develop and coordinate the implementation of the eight priorities of the NEI, which include, but are not limited to, improving advocacy and trade promotion efforts on behalf of U.S. exporters, increasing access to export financing, and removing barriers to trade and enforcing U.S. trade laws and agreements. As part of these responsibilities, the Export Promotion Cabinet, in coordination with the Advocacy Center at the Department of Commerce, is focused on ensuring that the Federal Government’s commercial advocacy effectively promotes exports by U.S. businesses, particularly by those firms competing for international contracts against foreign firms that may benefit from strong home government support. The creation of a new whole-of-government commercial advocacy task force that will provide enhanced Federal support for U.S. businesses competing for international contracts, coordinate the efforts of executive branch leadership in engaging their foreign counterparts on commercial advocacy issues, and increase the availability of information to the U.S. business community about these kinds of export opportunities, will ensure that U.S. exporters have more support for selling their goods and services in global markets.
Sec. 2. Establishment and Membership. There is hereby established an Interagency Task Force on Commercial Advocacy (Task Force).
(a) The Task Force shall be chaired by the Secretary of Commerce (Chair) and consist of senior-level officials from the following executive departments and agencies (agencies) designated by the heads of those agencies:
(i) Department of State;
(ii) Department of the Treasury;
(iii) Department of Defense;
(iv) Department of Agriculture;
(v) Department of Health and Human Services;
(vi) Department of Transportation;
(vii) Department of Energy;
(viii) Department of Homeland Security;
(ix) United States Agency for International Development;
(x) Export-Import Bank of the United States;
(xi) Millennium Challenge Corporation;
(xii) Overseas Private Investment Corporation;
(xiii) Small Business Administration;
(xiv) United States Trade and Development Agency; and
(xv) such other agencies as the President, or the Chair, may designate.
(b) The Chair shall designate a senior-level official of the Department of Commerce as the Executive Director of the Task Force, who shall be responsible for regularly convening and presiding over the meetings of the Task Force, determining its agenda, and guiding its work in fulfilling its functions under this order in coordination with the Advocacy Center at the Department of Commerce.
Sec. 3. Functions. The Task Force shall perform the following functions:
(a) review and prioritize commercial advocacy cases in which the Advocacy Center at the Department of Commerce has approved the provision of commercial advocacy services, and coordinate the activities of relevant agencies to enhance Federal support for such cases, in order to increase the success of U.S. exporters competing for foreign procurements;
(b) coordinate the engagement of agency leadership with their foreign counterparts regarding commercial advocacy issues, particularly with respect to their foreign travel and other occasions for engagement with foreign officials, and evaluate reports on the outcomes of such engagement, in order to increase the number of senior-level agency officials regularly and effectively advocating on behalf of U.S. exporters;
(c) develop strategies to raise the awareness of commercial advocacy assistance within the U.S. business community in order to increase the number of U.S. businesses utilizing commercial advocacy services;
(d) institute processes to obtain and distribute information about foreign procurement opportunities that may be of interest to U.S. businesses in order to expand awareness of opportunities for U.S. businesses to sell their goods and services to foreign governments;
(e) facilitate voluntary short-term personnel exchanges, not to exceed 120 days, between the Department of Commerce and other Task Force agencies, in order to cross-train Federal personnel to better serve U.S. exporters; and
(f) submit a progress report to the Export Promotion Cabinet every 180 days, which should include, but not be limited to, the number of commercial advocacy cases opened and successfully concluded, the number of commercial advocacy engagements by senior-level agency officials, and the number of U.S. businesses utilizing commercial advocacy services. The Advocacy Center at the Department of Commerce will be responsible for managing and tracking all commercial advocacy reporting for the Task Force.
Sec. 4. Definitions. For the purposes of this order:
(a) the term “commercial advocacy” shall mean Federal support for U.S. firms competing for foreign project or procurement opportunities; and
(b) the term “foreign project or procurement opportunities” shall mean export opportunities, including defense export opportunities, for U.S. businesses that involve foreign government decisionmakers, including foreign government-owned corporations.
Sec. 5. General Provisions. (a) The Commerce Department shall provide funding and administrative support for the Task Force to the extent permitted by law and consistent with existing appropriations.
(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise effect [sic]:
(i) the authority granted by law, regulation, Executive Order, or Presidential Directive to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; and
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

Barack Obama.



Ex. Ord. No. 13675. Establishing the President’s Advisory Council on Doing Business in Africa
Ex. Ord. No. 13675, Aug. 5, 2014, 79 F.R. 46661, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to promote broad-based economic growth and job creation in the United States and Africa by encouraging U.S. companies to trade with and invest in Africa, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Policy. The United States recognizes that Africa is a region of growing economic opportunity and innovation and aims to expand a trade and investment partnership that is grounded in shared interests and mutual responsibility. Africa offers a diverse and broad range of trade and investment opportunities in national and regional markets. The U.S. Government will encourage U.S. companies to seize the trade and investment opportunities offered by Africa’s national and regional markets and help drive inclusive and sustained economic growth and the region’s economic expansion, while also creating jobs here in the United States.
Sec. 2. Establishment. Not later than 180 days after the date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce shall establish the President’s Advisory Council on Doing Business in Africa (Advisory Council).
Sec. 3. Membership. (a) The Advisory Council shall consist of not more than 15 private sector corporate members, including small businesses and representatives from infrastructure, agriculture, consumer goods, banking, services, and other industries. The Advisory Council shall be broadly representative of the key industries with business interests in the functions of the Advisory Council as set forth in section 4 of this order. Appointments to the Advisory Council shall be made without regard to political affiliation.
(b) Members of the Advisory Council shall be appointed by the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee (TPCC), which was authorized by statute in 1992 (15 U.S.C. 4727) and established by Executive Order 12870 of September 30, 1993.
Sec. 4. Functions. (a) The Advisory Council shall advise the President, through the Secretary of Commerce, on strengthening commercial engagement between the United States and Africa, with a focus on advancing the President’s Doing Business in Africa Campaign as described in the U.S. Strategy Toward Sub-Saharan Africa of June 14, 2012.
(b) In providing the advice described in subsection (a) of this section, the Advisory Council shall provide information, analysis, and recommendations to the President that address the following, in addition to other topics deemed relevant by the President, the Secretary of Commerce, or the Advisory Council:
(i) creating jobs in the United States and Africa through trade and investment;
(ii) developing strategies by which the U.S. private sector can identify and take advantage of trade and investment opportunities in Africa;
(iii) building lasting commercial partnerships between the U.S. and African private sectors;
(iv) facilitating U.S. business participation in Africa’s infrastructure development;
(v) contributing to the growth and improvement of Africa’s agricultural sector by encouraging partnerships between U.S. and African companies to bring innovative agricultural technologies to Africa;
(vi) making available to the U.S. private sector an accurate understanding of the opportunities presented for increasing trade with and investment in Africa;
(vii) developing and strengthening partnerships and other mechanisms to increase U.S. public and private sector financing of trade with and investment in Africa;
(viii) analyzing the effect of policies in the United States and Africa on U.S. trade and investment interests in Africa;
(ix) identifying other means to expand commercial ties between the United States and Africa; and
(x) building the capacity of Africa’s young entrepreneurs to develop trade and investment ties with U.S. partners.
Sec. 5. Administration. (a) The Department of Commerce shall provide funding and administrative support for the Advisory Council to the extent permitted by law and within existing appropriations.
(b) Members of the Advisory Council shall serve without either compensation or reimbursement of expenses.
(c) The Secretary of Commerce shall designate a senior officer or employee of the Department of Commerce to serve as the Executive Director for the Advisory Council.
(d) The Secretary of Commerce shall consult with the TPCC on matters and activities pertaining to the Advisory Council, including on activities related to implementation of the advice of the Advisory Council. The Secretary of Commerce shall invite representatives of TPCC agencies to attend meetings of the Advisory Council when issues relevant to their responsibilities are to be considered.
Sec. 6. Termination. The Advisory Council shall function for such period as may be necessary but shall terminate 2 years after the date of this order, unless extended by the President.
Sec. 7. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
(d) Insofar as the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) (the “Act”) may apply to the Advisory Council, any functions of the President under the Act, except for those in section 6 of the Act, shall be performed by the Secretary of Commerce in accordance with the guidelines that have been issued by the Administrator of General Services.

Barack Obama.



Maximizing the Effectiveness of Federal Programs and Functions Supporting Trade and Investment
Memorandum of President of the United States, Feb. 17, 2012, 77 F.R. 10935, provided:
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Winning the future and creating an economy that’s built to last will require the Federal Government to wisely allocate scarce resources to maximize efficiency and effectiveness so that it can best support American competitiveness, innovation, and job growth. Creating good, high-paying jobs in the United States and ensuring sustainable economic growth are the top priorities of my Administration. To accomplish these goals, we must ensure that U.S. businesses increase their exports of goods, services, and agricultural products, and that foreign companies recognize the United States as an attractive place to invest and to open businesses. While this growth will be fueled by the private sector, the Federal Government must do its part to facilitate trade and investment.
Executive Order 13534 of March 11, 2010, established the Export Promotion Cabinet to coordinate the development and implementation of the National Export Initiative (NEI) to improve conditions that directly affect the private sector’s ability to export and to help meet my Administration’s goal of doubling exports over 5 years. Pursuant to the terms of the Executive Order, the Export Promotion Cabinet conducts its work in coordination with the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee (TPCC). The TPCC, chaired by the Secretary of Commerce, was authorized by statute in 1992 (15 U.S.C. 4727) and established by Executive Order 12870 of September 30, 1993. The NEI has used Government resources and policies to increase exports at a pace consistent with the goal of doubling exports by the end of 2014. The NEI has accomplished this by opening up foreign markets for U.S. exports, enhancing enforcement of our trade laws, providing needed export financing, advocating on behalf of U.S. firms, and otherwise facilitating U.S. exports. But we must do more.
On January 13, 2012, I announced that I would submit a legislative proposal seeking the authority to reorganize the Federal Government in order to reduce costs and consolidate agencies (Consolidation Authority), and outlined the first use I would make of such authority: to streamline functions currently dispersed across numerous agencies into a single new department to promote competitiveness, exports, and American business. The new department would integrate and streamline trade negotiation, financing, promotion, and enforcement functions currently housed at half a dozen executive departments and agencies, and would include an office dedicated to expanding foreign investment and assisting businesses that are considering investing in the United States. In addition to the trade and investment functions, the new department would include integrated small business, technology, innovation, and statistics programs and services from a number of departments and agencies, thereby creating a one-stop shop for businesses that want to grow and export. We cannot afford to wait until the Congress acts, however, and must do all we can administratively to make the most efficient and effective use of the Federal Government’s trade, foreign investment, export, and business programs and functions.
Accordingly, to further enhance and coordinate Federal efforts to facilitate the creation of jobs in the United States and ensure sustainable economic growth through trade and foreign investment, and to ensure the effective and efficient use of Federal resources in support of these goals, I hereby direct the following:
(1) Program Coordination. In coordination with the TPCC, the Export Promotion Cabinet shall develop strategies and initiatives in support of my Administration’s strategic trade and investment goals and priorities, including the specific measures outlined in this memorandum. The Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economics shall coordinate the activities of the Export Promotion Cabinet pursuant to this memorandum. Measures and progress shall continue to be reported in the annual National Export Strategy report of the TPCC. The TPCC will continue to function as it has, consistent with its statutorily mandated duties.
(2) Improving Customer Service for Exporters. Consistent with my memorandum of October 28, 2011 (Making it Easier for America’s Small Businesses and America’s Exporters to Access Government Services to Help Them Grow and Hire), the Export Promotion Cabinet shall support the Steering Committee established pursuant to that memorandum in its efforts to create BusinessUSA, a common, open, online platform and web service that will, among other things, enable exporters to seamlessly access information about export-related Government programs, resources, and services regardless of which agency provides them.
(3) Trade Budget. The Export Promotion Cabinet shall, in consultation with the TPCC:
(a) evaluate the allocation of Federal Government resources to assist with trade financing, negotiation, enforcement, and promotion, as well as the encouragement of foreign investment in the United States, and identify potential savings from streamlining overlapping or duplicative programs, as well as areas in need of additional resources;
(b) make recommendations to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for more effective resource allocation to these functions, consistent with my Administration’s strategic trade and investment goals and priorities, including recommendations to streamline overlapping and duplicative programs and reallocate those resources; and
(c) present to the Director of OMB for consideration in the annual process for developing the President’s Budget, a proposed unified Federal trade budget, consistent with my Administration’s strategic trade and investment goals and priorities.
(4) Coordination of Offices and Staff. The Export Promotion Cabinet, in consultation with the TPCC, shall take steps to ensure the most efficient use of its members’ domestic and foreign offices and distribution networks, including: co-locating offices wherever appropriate; cross-training staff to better serve business customers at home and abroad by promoting exports to foreign countries and foreign investment in the United States; and considering the effectiveness of commercial diplomacy, cross-training, and referrals, as appropriate, when evaluating employee performance.
(5) Enhancing Business Competitiveness. Pending passage of legislation providing Consolidation Authority, the Export Promotion Cabinet shall work with the National Economic Council to develop and coordinate administrative initiatives to align and enhance programs that enable and support efforts by American businesses, particularly small businesses, to innovate, grow, and increase exports.
(6) General Provisions[.] (a) This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(b) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) authority granted by law to a department or agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(c) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
(d) The Director of OMB is hereby authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.

Barack Obama.



