§ 22. Control of park by Secretary of the Interior; removal of trespassers
The Yellowstone National Park shall be under the exclusive control of the Secretary of the Interior. In addition to the powers and duties enumerated in section 3 of this title not inconsistent with this section, he shall make regulations providing for the preservation, from injury or spoliation, of all timber, mineral deposits, natural curiosities, or wonders, within the park, and their retention in their natural condition. The Secretary may, in his discretion, grant leases for building purposes for terms not exceeding thirty years, of small parcels of ground, at such places in the park as may require the erection of buildings for the accommodation of visitors. He shall provide against the wanton destruction of the fish and game found within the park, and against their capture or destruction for the purposes of merchandise or profit. He shall also cause all persons trespassing upon the same to be removed therefrom, and generally is authorized to take all such measures as may be necessary or proper to fully carry out the objects and purposes of this section.
(R.S. § 2475; Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408, § 3, 39 Stat. 535; Pub. L. 85–434, May 29, 1958, 72 Stat. 152.)

Codification
R.S. § 2475 derived from act Mar. 1, 1872, ch. 24, § 2, 17 Stat. 33.
The words “whose duty it shall be, as soon as practicable, to make and publish such regulations as he may deem necessary or proper for the care and management of the same” were omitted from the end of the first sentence as executed legislation.
The words “In addition to the powers and duties enumerated in section 3 of this title not inconsistent with this section” were added to relate this section to later law, defining the duties of the Secretary of the Interior as to national parks.
“Thirty years” was substituted for “ten years” in view of section 3 of act Aug. 25, 1916, and act May 29, 1958, which authorized the Secretary to grant privileges, leases, and permits in the various parks for periods not exceeding thirty years. See section 3 of this title.
As originally enacted, this section also contained a provision that “all of the proceeds of such leases, and all other revenues that may be derived from any source connected with the park, to be expended under his [Secretary of the Interior] direction in the management of the same, and the construction of roads and bridlepaths therein.” This provision was superseded by section 452 of this title providing for the disposition of all revenues from national parks.


