“SEC. 3416. STUDY OF FUTURE OF OTHER NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES.“(a) Study Required.—The Secretary of Energy shall conduct a study to determine which of the following options, or combinations of options, regarding the naval petroleum reserves (other than Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 1) would maximize the value of the reserves to the United States:“(1) Retention and operation of the naval petroleum reserves by the Secretary under chapter 641 of title 10, United States Code.

“(2) Transfer of all or a part of the naval petroleum reserves to the jurisdiction of another Federal agency for administration under chapter 641 of title 10, United States Code.

“(3) Transfer of all or a part of the naval petroleum reserves to the Department of the Interior for leasing in accordance with the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) and surface management in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act [of 1976] (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).

“(4) Sale of the interest of the United States in the naval petroleum reserves.


“(b) Conduct of Study.—The Secretary shall retain an independent petroleum consultant to conduct the study.

“(c) Considerations Under Study.—An examination of the value to be derived by the United States from the transfer or sale of the naval petroleum reserves shall include an assessment and estimate of the fair market value of the interest of the United States in the naval petroleum reserves. The assessment and estimate shall be made in a manner consistent with customary property valuation practices in the oil and gas industry.

“(d) Report and Recommendations Regarding Study.—Not later than June 1, 1996, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing the results of the study and containing such recommendations (including proposed legislation) as the Secretary considers necessary to implement the option, or combination of options, identified in the study that would maximize the value of the naval petroleum reserves to the United States.”

