§ 3902. Definitions
In this chapter:(1) Appropriate congressional committeesThe term “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.


(2) Controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification SchemeAn importation or exportation of rough diamonds is “controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme” if it is an importation from the territory of a Participant or exportation to the territory of a Participant of rough diamonds that is—(A) carried out in accordance with the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, as set forth in regulations promulgated by the President; or

(B) controlled under a system determined by the President to meet substantially the standards, practices, and procedures of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.


(3) Exporting authorityThe term “exporting authority” means 1 or more entities designated by a Participant from whose territory a shipment of rough diamonds is being exported as having the authority to validate the Kimberley Process Certificate.


(4) Importing authorityThe term “importing authority” means 1 or more entities designated by a Participant into whose territory a shipment of rough diamonds is imported as having the authority to enforce the laws and regulations of the Participant regulating imports, including the verification of the Kimberley Process Certificate accompanying the shipment.


(5) Kimberley Process CertificateThe term “Kimberley Process Certificate” means a forgery resistant document of a Participant that demonstrates that an importation or exportation of rough diamonds has been controlled through the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme and contains the minimum elements set forth in Annex I to the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.


(6) Kimberley Process Certification SchemeThe term “Kimberley Process Certification Scheme” means those standards, practices, and procedures of the international certification scheme for rough diamonds presented in the document entitled “Kimberley Process Certification Scheme” referred to in the Interlaken Declaration on the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme for Rough Diamonds of November 5, 2002.


(7) ParticipantThe term “Participant” means a state, customs territory, or regional economic integration organization identified by the Secretary of State.


(8) PersonThe term “person” means an individual or entity.


(9) Rough diamondThe term “rough diamond” means any diamond that is unworked or simply sawn, cleaved, or bruted and classifiable under subheading 7102.10, 7102.21, or 7102.31 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.


(10) United StatesThe term “United States”, when used in the geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Columbia, and any commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.


(11) United States personThe term “United States person” means—(A) any United States citizen or any alien admitted for permanent residence into the United States;

(B) any entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including its foreign branches); and

(C) any person in the United States.


(Pub. L. 108–19, § 3, Apr. 25, 2003, 117 Stat. 632.)


References in TextThe Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States, referred to in par. (9), is not set out in the Code. See Publication of Harmonized Tariff Schedule note set out under section 1202 of this title.


Change of Name
Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


