§ 2016. Undergraduate nurse training program: establishment through agreement with academic institution(a) Establishment Authorized.—(1) To increase the number of nurses in the armed forces, the Secretary of Defense may enter into an agreement with one or more academic institutions to establish and operate an undergraduate program (in this section referred to as a “undergraduate nurse training program”) under which participants will earn a bachelor of science degree in nursing and serve as a member of the armed forces.

(2) The Secretary of Defense may authorize the participation of members of the other uniformed services in the undergraduate nurse training program if the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Health and Human Services jointly determine the participation of such members in the program will facilitate an increase in the number of nurses in the other uniformed services.


(b) Graduation Rates.—An undergraduate nurse training program shall have the capacity to graduate 25 students with a bachelor of science degree in nursing in the first class of the program, 50 in the second class, and 100 annually thereafter.

(c) Elements.—An undergraduate nurse training program shall have the following elements:(1) It shall involve an academic partnership with one or more academic institutions with existing accredited schools of nursing.

(2) It shall recruit as participants qualified individuals with at least two years of appropriate academic preparation, as determined by the Secretary of Defense.


(d) Location of Programs.—(1) An academic institution selected to operate an undergraduate nurse training program shall establish the program at or near a military installation that has a military treatment facility designated as a medical center with inpatient capability and multiple graduate medical education programs located on the installation or within reasonable proximity to the installation.

(2) Before approving a location as the site of an undergraduate nurse training program, the Secretary of Defense shall conduct an assessment to ensure that the establishment of the program at that location will not adversely impact or displace existing nurse training programs, either conducted by the Department of Defense or by a civilian entity, at the location.


(e) Limitation on Faculty.—An agreement entered into under subsection (a) shall not require members of the armed forces who are nurses to serve as faculty members for an undergraduate nurse training program.

(f) Military Service Commitment.—The Secretary of Defense shall encourage members of the armed forces to apply to participate in an undergraduate nurse training program. Graduates of the program shall incur a military service obligation in a regular or reserve component, as determined by the Secretary.

(Added Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title V, § 525(b)(1), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2286; amended Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title V, § 551(a)–(c), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4219.)

Amendments2011—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 111–383, § 551(a), substituted “a bachelor of science degree in nursing” for “a nursing degree”.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 111–383, § 551(b), inserted “in nursing” after “bachelor of science degree”.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 111–383, § 551(c), amended subsec. (d) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “An academic institution selected to operate an undergraduate nurse training program shall establish the program at or near a military installation. A military installation at or near which an undergraduate nurse training program is established must—
“(1) be one of the ten largest military installations in the United States, in terms of the number of active duty personnel assigned to the installation and family members residing on or in the vicinity of the installations; and
“(2) have a military treatment facility with inpatient capability designated as a medical center located on the installation or within 10 miles of the installation.”

Plan and Pilot Program To Establish Undergraduate Nurse Training ProgramPub. L. 111–84, div. A, title V, § 525(c)–(f), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2287, 2288, as amended by Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title V, § 551(d), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4219, provided that:
“(c) Undergraduate Nurse Training Program Plan.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2009], the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a plan to establish an undergraduate nurse training program in the Department of Defense in accordance with the authority provided by section 2169 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), section 2016 of such title, as added by subsection (b), or any other authority available to the Secretary.

“(d) Pilot Program.—“(1) Pilot program required.—The plan required by subsection (c) shall provide for the establishment of a pilot program to increase the number of nurses serving in the Armed Forces.

“(2) Implementation and duration.—The pilot program shall begin not later than December 31, 2011, and be of not less than five years in duration.

“(3) Graduation rates.—The goal of the pilot program is to achieve graduation rates at least equal to the rates required for the undergraduate nurse training programs authorized by section 2016 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (b).

“(4) Implementation report.—Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2009], the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the pilot program, including a description of the program selected to be undertaken, the program’s goals, and any additional legal authorities that may be needed to undertake the program.

“(5) Progress reports.—Not later than 90 days after the end of each academic year of the pilot program, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report specifying the number of nurses accessed into the Armed Forces through the program and the number of students accepted for the upcoming academic year.

“(6) Final report.—Not later than one year before the end of the pilot program, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report specifying the number of nurses accessed through the program, evaluating the overall effectiveness of the program, and containing the Secretary’s recommendations regarding whether the program should be extended.


“(e) Effect on Other Nursing Programs.—Notwithstanding the development of undergraduate nurse training programs under the amendments made by this section [enacting this section and section 2169 of this title and repealing section 2117 of this title] and subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that graduate degree programs in nursing, including advanced practice nursing, continue.

“(f) Effect on Other Recruitment Efforts.—Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or terminating any current or future program of the Department of Defense related to the recruitment, accession, training, or retention of nurses.”





