§ 3808. Additional implementation and enforcement requirements(a) In generalAt the time the President submits to the Congress the final text of an agreement pursuant to section 3805(a)(1)(C) of this title, the President shall also submit a plan for implementing and enforcing the agreement. The implementation and enforcement plan shall include the following:(1) Border personnel requirementsA description of additional personnel required at border entry points, including a list of additional customs and agricultural inspectors.


(2) Agency staffing requirementsA description of additional personnel required by Federal agencies responsible for monitoring and implementing the trade agreement, including personnel required by the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Agriculture (including additional personnel required to implement sanitary and phytosanitary measures in order to obtain market access for United States exports), the Department of the Treasury, and such other agencies as may be necessary.


(3) Customs infrastructure requirementsA description of the additional equipment and facilities needed by the United States Customs Service.


(4) Impact on State and local governmentsA description of the impact the trade agreement will have on State and local governments as a result of increases in trade.


(5) Cost analysisAn analysis of the costs associated with each of the items listed in paragraphs (1) through (4).



(b) Budget submissionThe President shall include a request for the resources necessary to support the plan described in subsection (a) of this section in the first budget that the President submits to the Congress after the submission of the plan.


(Pub. L. 107–210, div. B, title XXI, § 2108, Aug. 6, 2002, 116 Stat. 1018.)


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


Delegation of Functions
For delegation of functions of President under this section, see section 1 of Ex. Ord. No. 13277, Nov. 19, 2002, 67 F.R. 70305, set out as a note under section 3801 of this title.


