§ 380. Enhancement of cooperation with civilian law enforcement officials(a) The Secretary of Defense, in cooperation with the Attorney General, shall conduct an annual briefing of law enforcement personnel of each State (including law enforcement personnel of the political subdivisions of each State) regarding information, training, technical support, and equipment and facilities available to civilian law enforcement personnel from the Department of Defense.

(b) Each briefing conducted under subsection (a) shall include the following:(1) An explanation of the procedures for civilian law enforcement officials—(A) to obtain information, equipment, training, expert advice, and other personnel support under this chapter; and

(B) to obtain surplus military equipment.


(2) A description of the types of information, equipment and facilities, and training and advice available to civilian law enforcement officials from the Department of Defense.

(3) A current, comprehensive list of military equipment which is suitable for law enforcement officials from the Department of Defense or available as surplus property from the Administrator of General Services.


(c) The Attorney General and the Administrator of General Services shall—(1) establish or designate an appropriate office or offices to maintain the list described in subsection (b)(3) and to furnish information to civilian law enforcement officials on the availability of surplus military equipment; and

(2) make available to civilian law enforcement personnel nationwide, tollfree telephone communication with such office or offices.


(Added Pub. L. 100–180, div. A, title XII, § 1243(a), Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1163; amended Pub. L. 100–456, div. A, title XI, § 1104(a), Sept. 29, 1988, 102 Stat. 2046.)

Amendments1988—Pub. L. 100–456 amended section generally, substituting provisions relating to annual briefing of law enforcement personnel of each State by Secretary of Defense and Attorney General and establishment of offices and telephone communication with those offices regarding surplus military equipment for provisions requiring the Secretary to report to Congress on the availability of assistance, etc., to civilian law enforcement and drug interdiction agencies and to convene a conference and requiring the Comptroller General to monitor and report on the Secretary’s compliance with those requirements.


