§ 635j. Export financing program to foster foreign trade and commercial interest of the United States(a) Congressional statement of policyIt is the policy of the Congress that the Export-Import Bank of the United States should facilitate through loans, guarantees, and insurance (including coinsurance and reinsurance) those export transactions which, in the judgment of the Board of Directors of the Bank, offer sufficient likelihood of repayment to justify the Bank’s support in order to actively foster the foreign trade and long-term commercial interest of the United States.


(b) Designation of transactions on books of the Bank; limitation on commitmentsThe Bank shall specially designate loans, guarantees, and insurance on the books of the Bank made under authority of this subchapter. In connection with guarantees and insurance, not less than 25 per centum of the related contractual liability of the Bank shall be taken into account for the purpose of applying the limitation imposed by section 635e of this title; but the full amount of the related contractual liability of such guarantees and insurance shall be taken into account for the purpose of applying the limitation in section 635(c)(1) of this title, concerning the amount of guarantees and insurance the Bank may have outstanding at any one time thereunder. The aggregate amount of loans plus 25 per centum of the contractual liability of guarantees and insurance outstanding at any one time under this subchapter shall not exceed $500,000,000.


(Pub. L. 90–390, § 1, July 7, 1968, 82 Stat. 296; Pub. L. 96–470, title I, § 115, Oct. 19, 1980, 94 Stat. 2240.)

Amendments1980—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 96–470 struck out subsec. (c) which required the Board of Directors of the Bank to submit to Congress for the calendar ending Sept. 30, 1968, and each calendar quarter thereafter, a report of all actions taken under authority of sections 635j to 635n of this title during such quarter.


Ex. Ord. No. 11420. Export Expansion Advisory Committee
Ex. Ord. No. 11420, July 31, 1968, 33 F.R. 10997, provided:
WHEREAS foreign trade is an essential and continuing element in sustaining the growth, strength, and prosperity of our economy, contributes to the improvement of our balance of payments, and fosters the long-term commercial interest of the United States; and
WHEREAS, on March 20, 1968, I requested the Congress to empower the Export-Import Bank of the United States to use up to $500,000,000 of its loan, guarantee, and insurance authority to finance a broadened program to sell American goods in foreign markets; and
WHEREAS the Congress has authorized the Bank to extend loans, guarantees, and insurance which, in the judgment of the Board of Directors of the Bank, offer sufficient likelihood of repayment to justify the Bank’s support in order to actively foster the foreign trade and long-term commercial interest of the United States; and
WHEREAS it is desirable and appropriate that guidance concerning the commercial interests and the balance of payments objectives of the United States be provided to the Board of Directors of the Bank in the use of such loan, guarantee, and insurance authority allocated to finance export expansion, and I have stated that I would establish an Export Expansion Advisory Committee to provide such guidance to the Board of Directors of the Bank:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment of Advisory Committee. (a) There is hereby established the Export Expansion Advisory Committee (hereinafter referred to as “the Committee”).
(b) The Committee shall be composed of the following members: the Secretary of Commerce, who shall be Chairman of the Committee, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the President and Chairman of the Board of the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
Sec. 2. Functions of the Committee. The Committee shall review and make recommendations concerning applications and proposals for loans, guarantees, and insurance to be charged against allocations made to finance export expansion and shall provide guidance to the Board of Directors of the Bank concerning the use of such allocations with the view to fostering the foreign trade and long-term commercial interest of the United States.
Sec. 3. Construction. Nothing in this order shall be construed to abrogate, modify, or restrict any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal agency or any officer thereof or to any Federal interagency council or committee. As used herein the term “any Federal agency” includes any executive department and any other executive agency.

Lyndon B. Johnson.


Termination of Advisory CommitteesAdvisory Committees in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law, see section 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


