§ 539l–1. Inholdings(a) State Land Board landsIf the Colorado State Land Board informs the Secretary that the Board is willing to transfer to the United States some or all of the lands owned by the Board located within the Protection Area, the Secretary shall promptly seek to reach agreement with the Board regarding terms and conditions for acquisition of such lands by the United States by purchase or exchange.


(b) Jim Creek inholding(1) Acquisition of landsThe Secretary shall enter into negotiations with the owner of lands located within the portion of the Jim Creek drainage within the Protection Area for the purpose of acquiring the lands by purchase or exchange, but the United States shall not acquire such lands without the consent of the owner of the lands.


(2) Landowner rightsNothing in this Act shall affect any rights of the owner of lands located within the Jim Creek drainage within the Protection Area, including any right to reasonable access to such lands by motorized or other means as determined by the Forest Service and the landowner consistent with applicable law and relevant and appropriate rules and regulations governing such access.



(c) Report(1) In generalThe Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report concerning any agreement or the status of negotiations conducted pursuant to—(A) subsection (a) of this section, upon conclusion of an agreement for acquisition by the United States of lands referred to in subsection (a) of this section, or 1 year after August 21, 2002, whichever occurs first; and

(B) subsection (b) of this section, upon conclusion of an agreement for acquisition by the United States of lands referred to in subsection (b) of this section, or 1 year after August 21, 2002, whichever occurs first.


(2) Funding informationThe report required by this subsection shall indicate to what extent funds are available to the Secretary as of the date of the report for the acquisition of the relevant lands and whether additional funds need to be appropriated or otherwise made available to the Secretary for such purpose.



(d) Management of acquisitionsAny lands within the James Peak Wilderness or the Protection Area acquired by the United States after August 21, 2002, shall be added to the James Peak Wilderness or the Protection Area, respectively, and managed accordingly.


(Pub. L. 107–216, § 4, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1059.)


References in TextThis Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is Pub. L. 107–216, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1055, which is classified principally to sections 539l to 539l–5 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 539l of this title and Tables.


Change of Name
Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


