“SEC. 1621. CENTER OF EXCELLENCE IN THE PREVENTION, DIAGNOSIS, MITIGATION, TREATMENT, AND REHABILITATION OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY.“(a) In General.—The Secretary of Defense shall establish within the Department of Defense a center of excellence in the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of traumatic brain injury, including mild, moderate, and severe traumatic brain injury, to carry out the responsibilities specified in subsection (c).

“(b) Partnerships.—The Secretary shall ensure that the Center collaborates to the maximum extent practicable with the Department of Veterans Affairs, institutions of higher education, and other appropriate public and private entities (including international entities) to carry out the responsibilities specified in subsection (c).

“(c) Responsibilities.—The Center shall have responsibilities as follows:“(1) To implement the comprehensive plan and strategy for the Department of Defense, required by section 1618 of this Act, for the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of traumatic brain injury, including research on gender and ethnic group-specific health needs related to traumatic brain injury.

“(2) To provide for the development, testing, and dissemination within the Department of best practices for the treatment of traumatic brain injury.

“(3) To provide guidance for the mental health system of the Department in determining the mental health and neurological health personnel required to provide quality mental health care for members of the Armed Forces with traumatic brain injury.

“(4) To establish, implement, and oversee a comprehensive program to train mental health and neurological health professionals of the Department in the treatment of traumatic brain injury.

“(5) To facilitate advancements in the study of the short-term and long-term psychological effects of traumatic brain injury.

“(6) To disseminate within the military medical treatment facilities of the Department best practices for training mental health professionals, including neurological health professionals, with respect to traumatic brain injury.

“(7) To conduct basic science and translational research on traumatic brain injury for the purposes of understanding the etiology of traumatic brain injury and developing preventive interventions and new treatments.

“(8) To develop programs and outreach strategies for families of members of the Armed Forces with traumatic brain injury in order to mitigate the negative impacts of traumatic brain injury on such family members and to support the recovery of such members from traumatic brain injury.

“(9) To conduct research on the mental health needs of families of members of the Armed Forces with traumatic brain injury and develop protocols to address any needs identified through such research.

“(10) To conduct longitudinal studies (using imaging technology and other proven research methods) on members of the Armed Forces with traumatic brain injury to identify early signs of Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, or other manifestations of neurodegeneration, as well as epilepsy, in such members, in coordination with the studies authorized by section 721 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109–364; 120 Stat. 2294) [10 U.S.C. 1074 note] and other studies of the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs that address the connection between exposure to combat and the development of Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, and other neurodegenerative disorders, as well as epilepsy.

“(11) To develop and oversee a long-term plan to increase the number of mental health and neurological health professionals within the Department in order to facilitate the meeting by the Department of the needs of members of the Armed Forces with traumatic brain injury until their transition to care and treatment from the Department of Veterans Affairs.

“(12) To develop a program on comprehensive pain management, including management of acute and chronic pain, to utilize current and develop new treatments for pain, and to identify and disseminate best practices on pain management related to traumatic brain injury.

“(13) Such other responsibilities as the Secretary shall specify.


