§ 1440. Research, monitoring, and education(a) In generalThe Secretary shall conduct, support, or coordinate research, monitoring, evaluation, and education programs consistent with subsections (b) and (c) of this section and the purposes and policies of this chapter.


(b) Research and monitoring(1) In generalThe Secretary may—(A) support, promote, and coordinate research on, and long-term monitoring of, sanctuary resources and natural processes that occur in national marine sanctuaries, including exploration, mapping, and environmental and socioeconomic assessment;

(B) develop and test methods to enhance degraded habitats or restore damaged, injured, or lost sanctuary resources; and

(C) support, promote, and coordinate research on, and the conservation, curation, and public display of, the cultural, archeological, and historical resources of national marine sanctuaries.


(2) Availability of resultsThe results of research and monitoring conducted, supported, or permitted by the Secretary under this subsection shall be made available to the public.



(c) Education(1) In generalThe Secretary may support, promote, and coordinate efforts to enhance public awareness, understanding, and appreciation of national marine sanctuaries and the System. Efforts supported, promoted, or coordinated under this subsection must emphasize the conservation goals and sustainable public uses of national marine sanctuaries and the System.


(2) Educational activitiesActivities under this subsection may include education of the general public, teachers, students, national marine sanctuary users, and ocean and coastal resource managers.



(d) Interpretive facilities(1) In generalThe Secretary may develop interpretive facilities near any national marine sanctuary.


(2) Facility requirementAny facility developed under this subsection must emphasize the conservation goals and sustainable public uses of national marine sanctuaries by providing the public with information about the conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, cultural, archeological, scientific, educational, or esthetic qualities of the national marine sanctuary.



(e) Consultation and coordinationIn conducting, supporting, and coordinating research, monitoring, evaluation, and education programs under subsection (a) of this section and developing interpretive facilities under subsection (d) of this section, the Secretary may consult or coordinate with Federal, interstate, or regional agencies, States or local governments.


(Pub. L. 92–532, title III, § 309, as added Pub. L. 100–627, title II, § 203(3), Nov. 7, 1988, 102 Stat. 3214; amended Pub. L. 102–587, title II, § 2108, Nov. 4, 1992, 106 Stat. 5045; Pub. L. 106–513, § 10, Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2388.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 309 of Pub. L. 92–532 was renumbered section 308 and is classified to section 1439 of this title.

Amendments2000—Pub. L. 106–513 amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:
“(a) In general.—The Secretary shall conduct research, monitoring, evaluation, and education programs as are necessary and reasonable to carry out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
“(b) Promotion and Coordination of Sanctuary Use.—The Secretary shall take such action as is necessary and reasonable to promote and coordinate the use of national marine sanctuaries for research, monitoring, and education purposes. Such action may include consulting with Federal agencies, States, local governments, regional agencies, interstate agencies, or other persons to promote use of one or more sanctuaries for research, monitoring, and education, including coordination with the National Estuarine Research Reserve System.”
1992—Pub. L. 102–587 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section read as follows: “The Secretary shall take such action as is necessary to promote and coordinate the use of national marine sanctuaries for research purposes, including—
“(1) requiring that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in conducting or supporting marine research, give priority to research involving national marine sanctuaries; and
“(2) consulting with other Federal and State agencies to promote use by such agencies of one or more sanctuaries for marine research.”


