§ 971e. Violations(a) In generalIt shall be unlawful—(1) for any person in charge of a fishing vessel or any fishing vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to engage in fishing in violation of any regulation adopted pursuant to section 971d of this title; or

(2) for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to ship, transport, purchase, sell, offer for sale, import, export, or have in custody, possession, or control any fish which he knows, or should have known, were taken or retained contrary to the recommendations of the Commission made pursuant to article VIII of the Convention and adopted as regulations pursuant to section 971d of this title, without regard to the citizenship of the person or vessel which took the fish.


(b) Failure to furnish returns, records, or reportsIt shall be unlawful for the master or any person in charge of any fishing vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to fail to make, keep, or furnish any catch returns, statistical records, or other reports as are required by regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter to be made, kept, or furnished by such master or person.


(c) Refusal of request to board and inspect vesselIt shall be unlawful for the master or any person in charge of any fishing vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to refuse to permit any person authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter and any regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to board such vessel and inspect its catch, equipment, books, documents, records, or other articles or question the persons onboard in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or the Convention, as the case may be, or to obstruct such officials in the execution of such duties.


(d) Importation of ineligible species or species under investigationIt shall be unlawful for any person to import, in violation of any regulation adopted pursuant to section 971d(c) or (d) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title, from any country, any fish in any form of those species subject to regulation pursuant to a recommendation of the Commission, or any fish in any form not under regulation but under investigation by the Commission, during the period such fish have been denied entry in accordance with the provisions of section 971d(c) or (d) 1 of this title. In the case of any fish as described in this subsection offered for entry in the United States, the Secretary shall require proof satisfactory to him that such fish is not ineligible for such entry under the terms of section 971d(c) or (d) 1 of this title.


(e) SanctionsThe civil penalty and permit sanctions of section 1858 of this title are hereby made applicable to violations of this section as if they were violations of section 1857 of this title.


(f) ForfeitureAll fish taken or retained in violation of subsection (a) of this section, or the monetary value thereof, may be forfeited.


(g) Applicability of other lawsAll provisions of law relating to the seizure, judicial forfeiture, and condemnation of a cargo for violation of the customs laws, the disposition of such cargo or the proceeds from the sale thereof, and the remission or mitigation of such forfeitures shall apply to seizures and forfeitures incurred, or alleged to have been incurred, under the provisions of this chapter, insofar as such provisions of law are applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.


(Pub. L. 94–70, § 7, Aug. 5, 1975, 89 Stat. 390; Pub. L. 104–43, title III, § 306, Nov. 3, 1995, 109 Stat. 385; Pub. L. 105–384, title II, § 202(b)(1)(F), Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3453.)


References in TextSection 971d(d) of this title, referred to in subsec. (d), was amended generally by Pub. L. 101–627, title II, § 207, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4461. Prior to amendment, subsec. (d) related to Commission recommendations concerning bluefin tuna and issuance of regulations in that regard.

Amendments1998—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 105–384 made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to section 1858 of this title.
1995—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 104–43 amended subsec. (e) generally, substituting present provisions for provisions establishing civil penalties for violations of this section, providing for authority of Secretary to assess, remit, or mitigate any civil penalty, providing for notice and hearing prior to assessment, and providing for civil action upon failure to pay penalty.


