§ 81j. Transfer of lands to Secretary of Navy
The Secretary of the Interior be, and he is, authorized and directed to transfer to the Secretary of the Navy complete control and jurisdiction over a parcel of land within the Colonial National Historical Park, Yorktown, Virginia, described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the existing property line between the United States naval mine depot and the Colonial National Monument Parkway properties, said point being a fence corner seven hundred and sixty-five feet, more or less, southeast of the marine barracks gate; thence south fifty-six degrees thirty-eight minutes east fifty-three and fifteen one-hundredths feet, more or less; thence south fifty degrees sixteen minutes east three hundred and twelve feet, more or less; thence south thirty-nine degrees forty-four minutes west one hundred and twenty-five and seven one-hundredths feet, more or less, to the property line between the United States naval mine depot and the Colonial National Monument Parkway; thence along the said property line north thirty-nine degrees fifty-four minutes west one hundred and twenty-eight and ninety-six one-hundredths feet, more or less; thence continuing along said property line north twenty-eight degrees eighteen minutes west two hundred and fifty-six and fifty-nine one-hundredths feet, more or less, to the point of beginning; containing six hundred and twenty-one one-thousandths of an acre, more or less.
(Dec. 23, 1944, ch. 721, 58 Stat. 923.)

Codification
Section was not enacted as part of act July 3, 1930, ch. 837, 46 Stat. 855, which comprises this subchapter.

Sewage-Disposal System for Yorktown AreaAct Mar. 29, 1956, ch. 111, 70 Stat. 64, provided for the modernization of the sanitary facilities in the Yorktown area of Colonial National Historical Park, and in anticipation of the 1957 Jamestown-Williamsburg-Yorktown celebration, authorized the Secretary of the Interior to construct, operate, and maintain a sewage-disposal system to serve Federal and non-Federal properties in the Yorktown area.

Temporary Transfer of Jurisdiction of PortionAct Dec. 24, 1942, ch. 820, 56 Stat. 1085, provided: 
“That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to transfer to the control and jurisdiction of the Department of the Navy a portion of the Colonial National Historical Park, Yorktown, Virginia, south of Ballards Creek and adjacent to the east boundary of the naval mine depot, containing approximately sixteen acres.
“Sec. 2. The President of the United States is authorized by Executive order to retransfer jurisdiction over the property to the Secretary of the Interior upon his application when, in the judgment of the President, the property has become surplus to the needs of the Department of the Navy, in which event it again shall become a part of the Colonial National Historical Park.”
