§ 462. Administration by Secretary of the Interior; powers and duties enumerated
The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in sections 461 to 467 of this title referred to as the Secretary), through the National Park Service, for the purpose of effectuating the policy expressed in section 461 of this title, shall have the following powers and perform the following duties and functions:(a) Secure, collate, and preserve drawings, plans, photographs, and other data of historic and archaeologic sites, buildings, and objects.

(b) Make a survey of historic and archaeologic sites, buildings, and objects for the purpose of determining which possess exceptional value as commemorating or illustrating the history of the United States.

(c) Make necessary investigations and researches in the United States relating to particular sites, buildings, or objects to obtain true and accurate historical and archaeological facts and information concerning the same.

(d) For the purpose of sections 461 to 467 of this title, acquire in the name of the United States by gift, purchase, or otherwise any property, personal or real, or any interest or estate therein, title to any real property to be satisfactory to the Secretary: Provided, That no such property which is owned by any religious or educational institution, or which is owned or administered for the benefit of the public shall be so acquired without the consent of the owner: Provided further, That no such property shall be acquired or contract or agreement for the acquisition thereof made which will obligate the general fund of the Treasury for the payment of such property, unless or until Congress has appropriated money which is available for that purpose.

(e) Contract and make cooperative agreements with States, municipal subdivisions, corporations, associations, or individuals, with proper bond where deemed advisable, to protect, preserve, maintain, or operate any historic or archaeologic building, site, object, or property used in connection therewith for public use, regardless as to whether the title thereto is in the United States: Provided, That no contract or cooperative agreement shall be made or entered into which will obligate the general fund of the Treasury unless or until Congress has appropriated money for such purpose.

(f) Restore, reconstruct, rehabilitate, preserve, and maintain historic or prehistoric sites, buildings, objects, and properties of national historical or archaeological significance and where deemed desirable establish and maintain museums in connection therewith.

(g) Erect and maintain tablets to mark or commemorate historic or prehistoric places and events of national historical or archaeological significance.

(h) Operate and manage historic and archaeologic sites, buildings, and properties acquired under the provisions of sections 461 to 467 of this title together with lands and subordinate buildings for the benefit of the public, such authority to include the power to charge reasonable visitation fees and grant concessions, leases, or permits for the use of land, building space, roads, or trails when necessary or desirable either to accommodate the public or to facilitate administration: Provided, That the Secretary may grant such concessions, leases, or permits and enter into contracts relating to the same with responsible persons, firms, or corporations without advertising and without securing competitive bids.

(i) When the Secretary determines that it would be administratively burdensome to restore, reconstruct, operate, or maintain any particular historic or archaeologic site, building, or property donated to the United States through the National Park Service, he may cause the same to be done by organizing a corporation for that purpose under the laws of the District of Columbia or any State.

(j) Develop an educational program and service for the purpose of making available to the public facts and information pertaining to American historic and archaeologic sites, buildings, and properties of national significance. Reasonable charges may be made for the dissemination of any such facts or information.

(k) Perform any and all acts, and make such rules and regulations not inconsistent with sections 461 to 467 of this title as may be necessary and proper to carry out the provisions thereof. Any person violating any of the rules and regulations authorized by said sections shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and be adjudged to pay all cost of the proceedings.

(Aug. 21, 1935, ch. 593, § 2, 49 Stat. 666; Pub. L. 89–249, § 8, Oct. 9, 1965, 79 Stat. 971.)

Amendments1965—Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 89–249 changed proviso to allow granting concessions, leases, and permits and entering into contracts with responsible persons, firms, or corporations without advertising and without securing competitive bids.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions of other officers, employees, and agencies of Department of the Interior, with certain exceptions, to Secretary of the Interior, with power to delegate, see Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3174, 64 Stat. 1262, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Financial Assistance for Maintenance and Protection of Folger Library and Corcoran Gallery of Art; Limitation on Contract AuthorityPub. L. 96–344, § 1, Sept. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 1133, provided: 

“That (a) in furtherance of the purposes of subsection 2(e) of the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666) [subsec. (e) of this section], the Secretary of the Interior may provide financial assistance for the maintenance and protection of the Folger Library and the Corcoran Gallery of Art.

“(b) Authority to enter into contracts or cooperative agreements, to incur obligations, or to make payments under this Act [Pub. L. 96–344, Sept. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 1133] shall be effective only to the extent, and in such amounts, as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts.”





