§ 441n. Lands outside gunnery range; exchange of lands; reservation of mineral rights; grazing and mineral development rights of Indians; execution of instruments; trust title(a) Exchange of lands; mineral and grazing rightsTitle to all Federal lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of the Badlands Air Force gunnery range that are outside the boundaries of the park, and that are transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior as provided in section 441l(a) of this title, including lands hereafter declared to be excess, and that are not selected under sections 441l(b) or 441m of this title, and title to all lands within the boundaries of the park that were acquired by the United States for the Badlands Air Force gunnery range, subject to any life estate conveyed pursuant to section 441m(c) of this title and subject to restrictions on use that may be prescribed in regulations applicable to the park, which regulations may include provisions for the protection of the black-footed ferret, may be conveyed to the Oglala Sioux Tribe in exchange (i) for the right of the United States to use all tribal land within the park for park purposes, including the right to manage fish and wildlife and other resources and to construct visitor use and administrative facilities thereon, and (ii) for title to three thousand one hundred fifteen and sixty-three one-hundredths acres of land owned by the Oglala Sioux Tribe and located in the area of the Badlands Air Force gunnery range which is not excess to the needs of the Department of the Air Force and which is encompassed in civil action numbered 859 W.D. in the United States District Court for the District of South Dakota, if such exchange is approved by the Oglala Sioux Tribal Council. The lands acquired under paragraph (ii) shall become a part of the Badlands Air Force gunnery range retained by the Department of the Air Force. The United States and the Oglala Sioux Tribe shall reserve all mineral rights in the lands so conveyed. The right of the United States to use for park purposes lands that were tribally owned prior to August 8, 1968, shall not impair the right of the Oglala Sioux Tribe to use such lands for grazing purposes and mineral development, including development for oil and gas.


(b) Execution of instrumentsThe Oglala Sioux Tribal Council may authorize the execution of the necessary instruments to effect the exchange on behalf of the tribe, and the Secretary may execute the necessary instruments on behalf of the United States.


(c) Trust titleAfter the exchange is effected the title of the Oglala Sioux Tribe to the property acquired by the exchange shall be held in trust subject to the same restrictions and authorities that apply to other lands of the tribe that are held in trust.


(Pub. L. 90–468, § 5, Aug. 8, 1968, 82 Stat. 665; Pub. L. 95–625, title VI, § 611, Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3521.)


Change of Name
Word “park” substituted for “monument” in subsec. (a) pursuant to Pub. L. 95–625, § 611, which is classified to section 441e–1 of this title and which redesignated Badlands National Monument as Badlands National Park.


