“SEC. 1406. TRAINING OF IRAQI SECURITY FORCES REGARDING TREATMENT OF DETAINEES.“(a) Required Policies.—“(1) In general.—The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe policies designed to ensure that all military and civilian Department of Defense personnel or contractor personnel of the Department of Defense responsible for the training of any unit of the Iraqi Security Forces provide training to such units regarding the international obligations and laws applicable to the humane treatment of detainees, including protections afforded under the Geneva Conventions and the Convention Against Torture.

“(2) Acknowledgment of training.—The Secretary shall ensure that, for all personnel of the Iraqi Security Forces who are provided training referred to in paragraph (1), there is documented acknowledgment that such training has been provided.

“(3) Deadline for policies to be prescribed.—The policies required by paragraph (1) shall be prescribed not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 6, 2006].


“(b) Army Field Manual.—“(1) Translation.—The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the unclassified portions of the United States Army Field Manual on Intelligence Interrogation to be translated into Arabic and any other language the Secretary determines appropriate for use by members of the Iraqi security forces.

“(2) Distribution.—The Secretary of Defense shall provide for such manual, as translated, to be distributed to all appropriate officials of the Iraqi Government, including, but not limited to, the Iraqi Minister of Defense, the Iraqi Minister of Interior, senior Iraqi military personnel, and appropriate members of the Iraqi Security Forces with a recommendation that the principles that underlay the manual be adopted by the Iraqis as the basis for their policies on interrogation of detainees.


“(c) Transmittal to Congressional Committees.—Not less than 30 days after the date on which policies are first prescribed under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives copies of such regulations, policies, or orders, together with a report on steps taken to the date of the report to implement this section.

“(d) Annual Report.—Not less than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 6, 2006], and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on the implementation of this section.”

