“SEC. 303. NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE SYSTEM CENTENNIAL COMMISSION.“(a) Establishment.—There is established the National Wildlife Refuge System Centennial Commission (referred to in this title as the ‘Commission’).

“(b) Members.—“(1) In general.—The Commission shall be composed of—“(A) the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;

“(B) up to 10 individuals appointed by the Secretary of the Interior;

“(C) the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Resources [now Committee on Natural Resources] of the House of Representatives and of the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate, who shall be nonvoting members; and

“(D) the congressional representatives of the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission, who shall be nonvoting members.


“(2) Appointments.—“(A) Deadline.—The members of the Commission shall be appointed not later than 90 days after the effective date of this title.

“(B) Appointments by the secretary of the interior.—“(i) In general.—The members of the Commission appointed by the Secretary of the Interior under paragraph (1)(B)—     “(I) shall not be officers or employees of the Federal Government; and

     “(II) shall, in the judgment of the Secretary—“(aa) represent the diverse beneficiaries of the System; and

“(bb) have outstanding knowledge or appreciation of wildlife, natural resource management, or wildlife-dependent recreation.



“(ii) Representation of views.—In making appointments under paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary of the Interior shall make every effort to ensure that the views of the hunting, fishing, and wildlife observation communities are represented on the Commission.



“(3) Vacancies.—Any vacancy in the Commission—“(A) shall not affect the power or duties of the Commission; and

“(B) shall be expeditiously filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.



“(c) Chairperson.—The Secretary of the Interior shall appoint one of the members as the Chairperson of the Commission.

“(d) Compensation.—The members of the Commission shall receive no compensation for their service on the Commission.

“(e) Travel Expenses.—“(1) Legislative branch members.—The members of the Commission from the legislative branch of the Federal Government shall be allowed necessary travel expenses, as authorized by other law for official travel, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission.

“(2) Executive branch members.—The members of the Commission from the executive branch of the Federal Government shall be allowed necessary travel expenses in accordance with section 5702 of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission.

“(3) Other members and staff.—The members of the Commission appointed by the Secretary of the Interior and staff of the Commission may be allowed necessary travel expenses as authorized by section 5702 of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission.


“(f) Duties.—The Commission shall—“(1) prepare, in cooperation with Federal, State, local, and nongovernmental partners, a plan to commemorate the centennial of the National Wildlife Refuge System beginning on March 14, 2003;

“(2) coordinate the activities of the partners under the plan; and

“(3) plan and host, in cooperation with the partners, a conference on the National Wildlife Refuge System, and assist in the activities of the conference.


“(g) Staff.—Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Commission may employ such staff as are necessary to carry out the duties of the Commission.

“(h) Donations.—“(1) In general.—The Commission may, in accordance with criteria established under paragraph (2), accept and use donations of money, personal property, or personal services.

“(2) Criteria.—The Commission shall establish written criteria to be used in determining whether the acceptance of gifts or donations under paragraph (1) would—“(A) reflect unfavorably on the ability of the Commission or any employee of the Commission to carry out its responsibilities or official duties in a fair and objective manner; or

“(B) compromise the integrity or the appearance of the integrity of any person involved in the activities of the Commission.



“(i) Administrative Support.—Upon the request of the Commission—“(1) the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, may provide to the Commission such administrative support services as are necessary for the Commission to carry out the duties of the Commission under this title, including services relating to budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, personnel, and procurement; and

“(2) the head of any other appropriate Federal agency may provide to the Commission such advice and assistance, with or without reimbursement, as are appropriate to assist the Commission in carrying out the duties of the Commission.


“(j) Reports.—“(1) Annual reports.—Not later than 1 year after the effective date of this title, and annually thereafter, the Commission shall submit to Congress a report on the activities and plans of the Commission.

“(2) Final report.—Not later than September 30, 2004, the Commission shall submit to the Committee on Resources [now Committee on Natural Resources] of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a final report on the activities of the Commission, including an accounting of all funds received and expended by the Commission.


“(k) Termination.—“(1) In general.—The Commission shall terminate 90 days after the date on which the Commission submits the final report under subsection (j).

“(2) Disposition of materials.—Upon termination of the Commission and after consultation with the Archivist of the United States and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the Secretary of the Interior may—“(A)(i) deposit all books, manuscripts, miscellaneous printed matter, memorabilia, relics, and other similar materials of the Commission relating to the centennial of the National Wildlife Refuge System in Federal, State, or local libraries or museums; or

“(ii) otherwise dispose of such materials; and


“(B)(i) use other property acquired by the Commission for the purposes of the National Wildlife Refuge System; or

“(ii) treat such property as excess property.




