§ 80a–9. Ineligibility of certain affiliated persons and underwriters(a) Persons deemed ineligible for service with investment companies, etc.; investment adviserIt shall be unlawful for any of the following persons to serve or act in the capacity of employee, officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser, or depositor of any registered investment company, or principal underwriter for any registered open-end company, registered unit investment trust, or registered face-amount certificate company:(1) any person who within 10 years has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor involving the purchase or sale of any security or arising out of such person’s conduct as an underwriter, broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, government securities dealer, bank, transfer agent, credit rating agency, or entity or person required to be registered under the Commodity Exchange Act [7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.], or as an affiliated person, salesman, or employee of any investment company, bank, insurance company, or entity or person required to be registered under the Commodity Exchange Act;

(2) any person who, by reason of any misconduct, is permanently or temporarily enjoined by order, judgment, or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction from acting as an underwriter, broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, government securities dealer, bank, transfer agent, credit rating agency, or entity or person required to be registered under the Commodity Exchange Act [7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.], or as an affiliated person, salesman, or employee of any investment company, bank, insurance company, or entity or person required to be registered under the Commodity Exchange Act, or from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with any such activity or in connection with the purchase or sale of any security; or

(3) a company any affiliated person of which is ineligible, by reason of paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection, to serve or act in the foregoing capacities.


For the purposes of paragraphs (1) to (3) of this subsection, the term “investment adviser” shall include an investment adviser as defined in subchapter II of this chapter.

(b) Certain persons serving investment companies; administrative action of CommissionThe Commission may, after notice and opportunity for hearing, by order prohibit, conditionally or unconditionally, either permanently or for such period of time as it in its discretion shall deem appropriate in the public interest, any person from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter, if such person—(1) has willfully made or caused to be made in any registration statement, application or report filed with the Commission under this subchapter any statement which was at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it was made false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or has omitted to state in any such registration statement, application, or report any material fact which was required to be stated therein;

(2) has willfully violated any provision of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.], or of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.], or of subchapter II of this chapter, or of this subchapter, or of the Commodity Exchange Act [7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.], or of any rule or regulation under any of such statutes;

(3) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or procured the violation by any other person of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.], or of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.], or of subchapter II of this chapter, or of this subchapter, or of the Commodity Exchange Act [7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.], or of any rule or regulation under any of such statutes;

(4) has been found by a foreign financial regulatory authority to have—(A) made or caused to be made in any application for registration or report required to be filed with a foreign securities authority, or in any proceeding before a foreign securities authority with respect to registration, any statement that was at the time and in light of the circumstances under which it was made false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or has omitted to state in any application or report to a foreign securities authority any material fact that is required to be stated therein;

(B) violated any foreign statute or regulation regarding transactions in securities or contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market or any board of trade; or

(C) aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or procured the violation by any other person of any foreign statute or regulation regarding transactions in securities or contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market or any board of trade;


(5) within 10 years has been convicted by a foreign court of competent jurisdiction of a crime, however denominated by the laws of the relevant foreign government, that is substantially equivalent to an offense set forth in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this section; or

(6) by reason of any misconduct, is temporarily or permanently enjoined by any foreign court of competent jurisdiction from acting in any of the capacities, set forth in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this section, or a substantially equivalent foreign capacity, or from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with any such activity or in connection with the purchase or sale of any security.


(c) Application of ineligible person for exemptionAny person who is ineligible, by reason of subsection (a) of this section, to serve or act in the capacities enumerated in such subsection, may file with the Commission an application for an exemption from the provisions of such subsection. The Commission shall by order grant such application, either unconditionally or on an appropriate temporary or other conditional basis, if it is established that the prohibitions of such subsection (a) as applied to such person, are unduly or disproportionately severe or that the conduct of such person has been such as not to make it against the public interest or protection of investors to grant such application.


(d) Money penalties in administrative proceedings(1) Authority of Commission(A) In generalIn any proceeding instituted pursuant to subsection (b) of this section against any person, the Commission may impose a civil penalty if it finds, on the record after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such penalty is in the public interest, and that such person—(i) has willfully violated any provision of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.], the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.], subchapter II of this chapter, or this subchapter, or the rules or regulations thereunder;

(ii) has willfully aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or procured such a violation by any other person; or

(iii) has willfully made or caused to be made in any registration statement, application, or report required to be filed with the Commission under this subchapter, any statement which was, at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which it was made, false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or has omitted to state in any such registration statement, application, or report any material fact which was required to be stated therein; 11 So in original. The semicolon probably should be a period.


(B) Cease-and-desist proceedingsIn any proceeding instituted pursuant to subsection (f) against any person, the Commission may impose a civil penalty if the Commission finds, on the record, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such person—(i) is violating or has violated any provision of this subchapter, or any rule or regulation issued under this subchapter; or

(ii) is or was a cause of the violation of any provision of this subchapter, or any rule or regulation issued under this subchapter.



(2) Maximum amount of penalty(A) First tierThe maximum amount of penalty for each act or omission described in paragraph (1) shall be $5,000 for a natural person or $50,000 for any other person.


(B) Second tierNotwithstanding subparagraph (A), the maximum amount of penalty for each such act or omission shall be $50,000 for a natural person or $250,000 for any other person if the act or omission described in paragraph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement.


(C) Third tierNotwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the maximum amount of penalty for each such act or omission shall be $100,000 for a natural person or $500,000 for any other person if—(i) the act or omission described in paragraph (1) involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement; and

(ii) such act or omission directly or indirectly resulted in substantial losses or created a significant risk of substantial losses to other persons or resulted in substantial pecuniary gain to the person who committed the act or omission.



(3) Determination of public interestIn considering under this section whether a penalty is in the public interest, the Commission may consider—(A) whether the act or omission for which such penalty is assessed involved fraud, deceit, manipulation, or deliberate or reckless disregard of a regulatory requirement;

(B) the harm to other persons resulting either directly or indirectly from such act or omission;

(C) the extent to which any person was unjustly enriched, taking into account any restitution made to persons injured by such behavior;

(D) whether such person previously has been found by the Commission, another appropriate regulatory agency, or a self-regulatory organization to have violated the Federal securities laws, State securities laws, or the rules of a self-regulatory organization, has been enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction from violations of such laws or rules, or has been convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction of violations of such laws or of any felony or misdemeanor described in section 80b–3(e)(2) of this title;

(E) the need to deter such person and other persons from committing such acts or omissions; and

(F) such other matters as justice may require.


(4) Evidence concerning ability to payIn any proceeding in which the Commission may impose a penalty under this section, a respondent may present evidence of the respondent’s ability to pay such penalty. The Commission may, in its discretion, consider such evidence in determining whether such penalty is in the public interest. Such evidence may relate to the extent of such person’s ability to continue in business and the collectability of a penalty, taking into account any other claims of the United States or third parties upon such person’s assets and the amount of such person’s assets.



(e) Authority to enter order requiring accounting and disgorgementIn any proceeding in which the Commission may impose a penalty under this section, the Commission may enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including reasonable interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules, regulations, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates of interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it deems appropriate to implement this subsection.


(f) Cease-and-desist proceedings(1) Authority of CommissionIf the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that any person is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision of this subchapter, or any rule or regulation thereunder, the Commission may publish its findings and enter an order requiring such person, and any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to such violation, to cease and desist from committing or causing such violation and any future violation of the same provision, rule, or regulation. Such order may, in addition to requiring a person to cease and desist from committing or causing a violation, require such person to comply, or to take steps to effect compliance, with such provision, rule, or regulation, upon such terms and conditions and within such time as the Commission may specify in such order. Any such order may, as the Commission deems appropriate, require future compliance or steps to effect future compliance, either permanently or for such period of time as the Commission may specify, with such provision, rule, or regulation with respect to any security, any issuer, or any other person.


(2) HearingThe notice instituting proceedings pursuant to paragraph (1) shall fix a hearing date not earlier than 30 days nor later than 60 days after service of the notice unless an earlier or a later date is set by the Commission with the consent of any respondent so served.


(3) Temporary order(A) In generalWhenever the Commission determines that the alleged violation or threatened violation specified in the notice instituting proceedings pursuant to paragraph (1), or the continuation thereof, is likely to result in significant dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest, including, but not limited to, losses to the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, prior to the completion of the proceeding, the Commission may enter a temporary order requiring the respondent to cease and desist from the violation or threatened violation and to take such action to prevent the violation or threatened violation and to prevent dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to the public interest as the Commission deems appropriate pending completion of such proceedings. Such an order shall be entered only after notice and opportunity for a hearing, unless the Commission, notwithstanding section 80a–39(a) of this title, determines that notice and hearing prior to entry would be impracticable or contrary to the public interest. A temporary order shall become effective upon service upon the respondent and, unless set aside, limited, or suspended by the Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, shall remain effective and enforceable pending the completion of the proceedings.


(B) ApplicabilityThis paragraph shall apply only to a respondent that acts, or, at the time of the alleged misconduct acted, as a broker, dealer, investment adviser, investment company, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, government securities dealer, or transfer agent, or is, or was at the time of the alleged misconduct, an associated person of, or a person seeking to become associated with, any of the foregoing.



(4) Review of temporary orders(A) Commission reviewAt any time after the respondent has been served with a temporary cease-and-desist order pursuant to paragraph (3), the respondent may apply to the Commission to have the order set aside, limited, or suspended. If the respondent has been served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hearing, the respondent may, within 10 days after the date on which the order was served, request a hearing on such application and the Commission shall hold a hearing and render a decision on such application at the earliest possible time.


(B) Judicial reviewWithin—(i) 10 days after the date the respondent was served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered with a prior Commission hearing, or

(ii) 10 days after the Commission renders a decision on an application and hearing under subparagraph (A), with respect to any temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hearing,


the respondent may apply to the United States district court for the district in which the respondent resides or has its principal place of business, or for the District of Columbia, for an order setting aside, limiting, or suspending the effectiveness or enforcement of the order, and the court shall have jurisdiction to enter such an order. A respondent served with a temporary cease-and-desist order entered without a prior Commission hearing may not apply to the court except after hearing and decision by the Commission on the respondent’s application under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.

(C) No automatic stay of temporary orderThe commencement of proceedings under subparagraph (B) of this paragraph shall not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay of the Commission’s order.


(D) Exclusive reviewSection 80a–42 of this title shall not apply to a temporary order entered pursuant to this section.



(5) Authority to enter order requiring accounting and disgorgementIn any cease-and-desist proceeding under subsection (f)(1) of this section, the Commission may enter an order requiring accounting and disgorgement, including reasonable interest. The Commission is authorized to adopt rules, regulations, and orders concerning payments to investors, rates of interest, periods of accrual, and such other matters as it deems appropriate to implement this subsection.



(g) Corporate or other trustees performing functions of investment advisersFor the purposes of this section, the term “investment adviser” includes a corporate or other trustee performing the functions of an investment adviser.


(Aug. 22, 1940, ch. 686, title I, § 9, 54 Stat. 805; Pub. L. 91–547, § 4, Dec. 14, 1970, 84 Stat. 1415; Pub. L. 94–29, § 28(6), June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 166; Pub. L. 99–571, title I, § 102(l), Oct. 28, 1986, 100 Stat. 3220; Pub. L. 100–181, title VI, § 609, Dec. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 1261; Pub. L. 101–429, title III, § 301, Oct. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 941; Pub. L. 101–550, title II, § 205(a), Nov. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 2718; Pub. L. 106–102, title II, § 222, Nov. 12, 1999, 113 Stat. 1401; Pub. L. 109–291, § 4(b)(2)(B), Sept. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 1337; Pub. L. 111–203, title IX, §§ 929P(a)(3), 985(d)(2), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1863, 1934.)


References in TextThe Commodity Exchange Act, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1), (2) and (b)(2), (3), is act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 369, 42 Stat. 998, which is classified generally to chapter 1 (§ 1 et seq.) of Title 7, Agriculture. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1 of Title 7 and Tables.
The Securities Act of 1933, referred to in subsecs. (b)(2), (3) and (d)(1)(A)(i), is act May 27, 1933, ch. 38, title I, 48 Stat. 74, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 77a et seq.) of chapter 2A of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 77a of this title and Tables.
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, referred to in subsecs. (b)(2), (3) and (d)(1)(A)(i), is act June 6, 1934, ch. 404, 48 Stat. 881, which is classified generally to 2B (§ 78a et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 78a of this title and Tables.

Amendments2010—Subsec. (b)(4)(B). Pub. L. 111–203, § 985(d)(2), inserted “or” at end.
Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 111–203, § 929P(a)(3), designated existing provisions as subpar. (A) and inserted heading, inserted “that such penalty is in the public interest, and” after “opportunity for hearing,” in introductory provisions, redesignated former subpars. (A) to (C) as cls. (i) to (iii), respectively, and realigned margins, struck out concluding provisions which read “and that such penalty is in the public interest.”, and added subpar. (B).
2006—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 109–291 inserted “credit rating agency,” after “transfer agent,” in pars. (1) and (2).
1999—Subsec. (a)(1), (2). Pub. L. 106–102 substituted “securities dealer, bank, transfer agent,” for “securities dealer, transfer agent,”.
1990—Subsec. (b)(4) to (6). Pub. L. 101–550 added pars. (4) to (6).
Subsecs. (d) to (f). Pub. L. 101–429, § 301(1), (2), added subsecs. (d) to (f) and redesignated former subsec. (d) as (g).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 101–429, § 301(3), which directed the striking out of “subsections (a) through (c) of” after “the purposes of”, was executed by striking out “subsection (a) through (c) of” as the probable intent of Congress.
Pub. L. 101–429, § 301(1), redesignated subsec. (d) as (g).
1987—Subsec. (a)(1), (2). Pub. L. 100–181 amended pars. (1) and (2) generally. Prior to amendment, pars. (1) and (2) read as follows:
“(1) any person who within 10 years has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor involving the purchase or sale of any security or arising out of such person’s conduct as an underwriter, broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, government securities dealer, or entity or person required to be registered under the Commodity Exchange Act, or as an affiliated person, salesman, or employee of any investment company, bank, insurance company, or entity or person required to be registered under the Commodity Exchange Act;
“(2) any person who, by reason of any misconduct, is permanently or temporarily enjoined by order, judgment, or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction from acting as an underwriter, broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker, government securities dealer, or entity or person required to be registered under the Commodity Exchange Act, or as an affiliated person, salesman, or employee of any investment company, bank, insurance company, or entity or person required to be registered under the Commodity Exchange Act, or from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with any such activity or in connection with the purchase or sale of any security; or”.
1986—Subsec. (a)(1), (2). Pub. L. 99–571, § 102(l)(1), inserted pars. (1) and (2) and struck out former pars. (1) and (2) which read as follows:
“(1) any person who within ten years has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor involving the purchase or sale of any security or arising out of such person’s conduct as an underwriter, broker, dealer, or investment adviser, or as an affiliated person, salesman, or employee of any investment company, bank, or insurance company;
“(2) any person who, by reason of any misconduct, is permanently or temporarily enjoined by order, judgment, or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction from acting as an underwriter, broker, dealer, or investment adviser, or as an affiliated person, salesman, or employee of any investment company, bank, or insurance company, or from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with any such activity or in connection with the purchase or sale of any security; or”.
Subsec. (b)(2), (3). Pub. L. 99–571, § 102(l)(2), (3), inserted reference to Commodity Exchange Act.
1975—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 94–29 added subsec. (d).
1970—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 91–547, § 4(a), inserted “employee,” before “officer” in introductory text.
Subsecs. (b), (c). Pub. L. 91–547, § 4(b), added subsec. (b) and redesignated former subsec. (b) as (c).

Effective Date of 2010 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 111–203 effective 1 day after July 21, 2010, except as otherwise provided, see section 4 of Pub. L. 111–203, set out as an Effective Date note under section 5301 of Title 12, Banks and Banking.

Effective Date of 1999 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 106–102 effective 18 months after Nov. 12, 1999, see section 225 of Pub. L. 106–102, set out as a note under section 77c of this title.

Effective Date of 1990 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 101–429 effective Oct. 15, 1990, with provisions relating to civil penalties and accounting and disgorgement, see section 1(c)(1), (2) of Pub. L. 101–429, set out in a note under section 77g of this title.

Effective Date of 1986 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 99–571 effective 270 days after Oct. 28, 1986, see section 401 of Pub. L. 99–571, set out as an Effective Date note under section 78o–5 of this title.

Effective Date of 1975 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 94–29 effective June 4, 1975, see section 31(a) of Pub. L. 94–29, set out as a note under section 78b of this title.

Effective Date of 1970 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 91–547 effective Dec. 14, 1970, see section 30 of Pub. L. 91–547, set out as a note under section 80a–52 of this title.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions of Securities and Exchange Commission, with certain exceptions, to Chairman of such Commission, see Reorg. Plan No. 10 of 1950, §§ 1, 2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3175, 64 Stat. 1265, set out under section 78d of this title.


