§ 410ggg–1. Administration of the National Historical Park(a) In general(1) General administrationThe Secretary of the Interior (in this subchapter referred to as the “Secretary”) shall administer the park in accordance with this subchapter and the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title and sections 461 to 467 of this title.


(2) Specific authoritiesThe Secretary may interpret the story of Rosie the Riveter and the World War II home front, conduct and maintain oral histories that relate to the World War II home front theme, and provide technical assistance in the preservation of historic properties that support this story.



(b) Cooperative agreements(1) General agreementsThe Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the owners of the Child Development Field Centers (Ruth C. Powers) (Maritime), Atchison Housing, the Kaiser-Permanente Field Hospital, and Richmond Fire Station 67A, pursuant to which the Secretary may mark, interpret, improve, restore, and provide technical assistance with respect to the preservation and interpretation of such properties. Such agreements shall contain, but need not be limited to, provisions under which the Secretary shall have the right of access at reasonable times to public portions of the property for interpretive and other purposes, and that no changes or alterations shall be made in the property except by mutual agreement.


(2) Limited agreementsThe Secretary may consult and enter into cooperative agreements with interested persons for interpretation and technical assistance with the preservation of—(A) the Ford Assembly Building;

(B) the intact dry docks/basin docks and five historic structures at Richmond Shipyard #3;

(C) the Shimada Peace Memorial Park;

(D) Westshore Park;

(E) the Rosie the Riveter Memorial;

(F) Sheridan Observation Point Park;

(G) the Bay Trail/Esplanade;

(H) Vincent Park; and

(I) the vessel S.S. RED OAK VICTORY, and Whirley Cranes associated with shipbuilding in Richmond.



(c) Education centerThe Secretary may establish a World War II Home Front Education Center in the Ford Assembly Building. Such center shall include a program that allows for distance learning and linkages to other representative sites across the country, for the purpose of educating the public as to the significance of the site and the World War II Home Front.


(d) Use of Federal funds(1) Non-Federal matching(A) As a condition of expending any funds appropriated to the Secretary for the purposes of the cooperative agreements under subsection (b)(2) of this section, the Secretary shall require that such expenditure must be matched by expenditure of an equal amount of funds, goods, services, or in-kind contributions provided by non-Federal sources.

(B) With the approval of the Secretary, any donation of property, services, or goods from a non-Federal source may be considered as a contribution of funds from a non-Federal source for purposes of this paragraph.


(2) Cooperative agreementAny payment made by the Secretary pursuant to a cooperative agreement under this section shall be subject to an agreement that conversion, use, or disposal of the project so assisted for purposes contrary to the purposes of this subchapter, as determined by the Secretary, shall entitle the United States to reimbursement of the greater of—(A) all funds paid by the Secretary to such project; or

(B) the proportion of the increased value of the project attributable to such payments, determined at the time of such conversion, use, or disposal.



(e) Acquisition(1) Ford Assembly BuildingThe Secretary may acquire a leasehold interest in the Ford Assembly Building for the purposes of operating a World War II Home Front Education Center.


(2) Other facilitiesThe Secretary may acquire, from willing sellers, lands or interests in the Child Development Field Centers (Ruth C. Powers) (Maritime), Atchison Housing, the Kaiser-Permanente Field Hospital, and Richmond Fire Station 67A, through donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, transfer from any other Federal agency, or exchange.


(3) ArtifactsThe Secretary may acquire and provide for the curation of historic artifacts that relate to the park.



(f) DonationsThe Secretary may accept and use donations of funds, property, and services to carry out this subchapter.


(g) General management plan(1) In generalNot later than 3 complete fiscal years after the date funds are made available, the Secretary shall prepare, in consultation with the City of Richmond, California, and transmit to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a general management plan for the park in accordance with the provisions of section 1a–7(b) of this title and other applicable law.


(2) Preservation of settingThe general management plan shall include a plan to preserve the historic setting of the Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home Front National Historical Park, which shall be jointly developed and approved by the City of Richmond.


(3) Additional sitesThe general management plan shall include a determination of whether there are additional representative sites in Richmond that should be added to the park or sites in the rest of the United States that relate to the industrial, governmental, and citizen efforts during World War II that should be linked to and interpreted at the park. Such determination shall consider any information or findings developed in the National Park Service study of the World War II Home Front under section 410ggg–2 of this title.



(Pub. L. 106–352, § 3, Oct. 24, 2000, 114 Stat. 1370; Pub. L. 108–352, § 6(2), Oct. 21, 2004, 118 Stat. 1396.)

Amendments2004—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 108–352, § 6(2)(A), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title.
Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 108–352, § 6(2)(B), substituted “the Child Development Field Centers (Ruth C. Powers) (Maritime), Atchison Housing, the Kaiser-Permanente Field Hospital, and Richmond Fire Station 67A” for “the World War II Child Development Centers, the World War II worker housing, the Kaiser-Permanente Field Hospital, and Fire Station 67A”.
Subsec. (e)(2). Pub. L. 108–352, § 6(2)(C), substituted “the Child Development Field Centers (Ruth C. Powers) (Maritime), Atchison Housing, the Kaiser-Permanente Field Hospital, and Richmond Fire Station 67A,” for “the World War II day care centers, the World War II worker housing, the Kaiser-Permanente Field Hospital, and Fire Station 67,”.


Change of Name
Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


