“SEC. 5. TRIBAL RIGHTS AND AUTHORITY ON THE MICCOSUKEE RESERVED AREA.“(a) Special Use Permit Terminated.—“(1) Termination.—The special use permit dated February 1, 1973, issued by the Secretary to the Tribe, and any amendments to that permit, are terminated.

“(2) Expansion of special use permit area.—The geographical area contained in the former special use permit area referred to in paragraph (1) shall be expanded pursuant to this Act and known as the Miccosukee Reserved Area.

“(3) Governance of affairs in miccosukee reserved area.—Subject to the provisions of this Act and other applicable Federal law, the Tribe shall govern its own affairs and otherwise make laws and apply those laws in the MRA as though the MRA were a Federal Indian reservation.


“(b) Perpetual Use and Occupancy.—The Tribe shall have the exclusive right to use and develop the MRA in perpetuity in a manner consistent with this Act for purposes of the administration, education, housing, and cultural activities of the Tribe, including commercial services necessary to support those purposes.

“(c) Indian Country Status.—The MRA shall be—“(1) considered to be Indian country (as that term is defined in section 1151 of title 18, United States Code); and

“(2) treated as a federally recognized Indian reservation solely for purposes of—“(A) determining the authority of the Tribe to govern its own affairs and otherwise make laws and apply those laws within the MRA; and

“(B) the eligibility of the Tribe and its members for any Federal health, education, employment, economic assistance, revenue sharing, or social welfare programs, or any other similar Federal program for which Indians are eligible because of their—“(i) status as Indians; and

“(ii) residence on or near an Indian reservation.




“(d) Exclusive Federal Jurisdiction Preserved.—The exclusive Federal legislative jurisdiction as applied to the MRA as in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 30, 1998] shall be preserved. The Act of August 15, 1953, 67 Stat. 588, chapter 505 [see Tables for classification] and the amendments made by that Act, including section 1162 of title 18, United States Code, as added by that Act and section 1360 of title 28, United States Code, as added by that Act, shall not apply with respect to the MRA.

“(e) Other Rights Preserved.—Nothing in this Act shall affect any rights of the Tribe under Federal law, including the right to use other lands or waters within the Park for other purposes, including, fishing, boating, hiking, camping, cultural activities, or religious observances.

