§ 7125. Resource advisory committees(a) Establishment and purpose of resource advisory committees(1) EstablishmentThe Secretary concerned shall establish and maintain resource advisory committees to perform the duties in subsection (b), except as provided in paragraph (4).


(2) PurposeThe purpose of a resource advisory committee shall be—(A) to improve collaborative relationships; and

(B) to provide advice and recommendations to the land management agencies consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.


(3) Access to resource advisory committeesTo ensure that each unit of Federal land has access to a resource advisory committee, and that there is sufficient interest in participation on a committee to ensure that membership can be balanced in terms of the points of view represented and the functions to be performed, the Secretary concerned may,11 So in original. The comma probably should not appear. establish resource advisory committees for part of, or 1 or more, units of Federal land.


(4) Existing advisory committees(A) In generalAn advisory committee that meets the requirements of this section, a resource advisory committee established before September 29, 2012, or an advisory committee determined by the Secretary concerned before September 29, 2012, to meet the requirements of this section may be deemed by the Secretary concerned to be a resource advisory committee for the purposes of this subchapter.


(B) CharterA charter for a committee described in subparagraph (A) that was filed on or before September 29, 2012, shall be considered to be filed for purposes of this chapter.


(C) Bureau of land management advisory committeesThe Secretary of the Interior may deem a resource advisory committee meeting the requirements of subpart 1784 of part 1780 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, as a resource advisory committee for the purposes of this subchapter.




(b) DutiesA resource advisory committee shall—(1) review projects proposed under this subchapter by participating counties and other persons;

(2) propose projects and funding to the Secretary concerned under section 7123 of this title;

(3) provide early and continuous coordination with appropriate land management agency officials in recommending projects consistent with purposes of this chapter under this subchapter;

(4) provide frequent opportunities for citizens, organizations, tribes, land management agencies, and other interested parties to participate openly and meaningfully, beginning at the early stages of the project development process under this subchapter;

(5)(A) monitor projects that have been approved under section 7124 of this title; and

(B) advise the designated Federal official on the progress of the monitoring efforts under subparagraph (A); and


(6) make recommendations to the Secretary concerned for any appropriate changes or adjustments to the projects being monitored by the resource advisory committee.


(c) Appointment by the Secretary(1) Appointment and term(A) In generalThe Secretary concerned,1 shall appoint the members of resource advisory committees for a term of 4 years beginning on the date of appointment.


(B) ReappointmentThe Secretary concerned may reappoint members to subsequent 4-year terms.



(2) Basic requirementsThe Secretary concerned shall ensure that each resource advisory committee established meets the requirements of subsection (d).


(3) Initial appointmentNot later than 180 days after October 3, 2008, the Secretary concerned shall make initial appointments to the resource advisory committees.


(4) VacanciesThe Secretary concerned shall make appointments to fill vacancies on any resource advisory committee as soon as practicable after the vacancy has occurred.


(5) CompensationMembers of the resource advisory committees shall not receive any compensation.



(d) Composition of advisory committee(1) NumberEach resource advisory committee shall be comprised of 15 members.


(2) Community interests representedCommittee members shall be representative of the interests of the following 3 categories:(A) 5 persons that—(i) represent organized labor or non-timber forest product harvester groups;

(ii) represent developed outdoor recreation, off highway vehicle users, or commercial recreation activities;

(iii) represent—(I) energy and mineral development interests; or

(II) commercial or recreational fishing interests;


(iv) represent the commercial timber industry; or

(v) hold Federal grazing or other land use permits, or represent nonindustrial private forest land owners, within the area for which the committee is organized.


(B) 5 persons that represent—(i) nationally recognized environmental organizations;

(ii) regionally or locally recognized environmental organizations;

(iii) dispersed recreational activities;

(iv) archaeological and historical interests; or

(v) nationally or regionally recognized wild horse and burro interest groups, wildlife or hunting organizations, or watershed associations.


(C) 5 persons that—(i) hold State elected office (or a designee);

(ii) hold county or local elected office;

(iii) represent American Indian tribes within or adjacent to the area for which the committee is organized;

(iv) are school officials or teachers; or

(v) represent the affected public at large.



(3) Balanced representationIn appointing committee members from the 3 categories in paragraph (2), the Secretary concerned shall provide for balanced and broad representation from within each category.


(4) Geographic distributionThe members of a resource advisory committee shall reside within the State in which the committee has jurisdiction and, to extent 22 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “the”. practicable, the Secretary concerned shall ensure local representation in each category in paragraph (2).


(5) ChairpersonA majority on each resource advisory committee shall select the chairperson of the committee.



(e) Approval procedures(1) In generalSubject to paragraph (3), each resource advisory committee shall establish procedures for proposing projects to the Secretary concerned under this subchapter.


(2) QuorumA quorum must be present to constitute an official meeting of the committee.


(3) Approval by majority of membersA project may be proposed by a resource advisory committee to the Secretary concerned under section 7123(a) of this title, if the project has been approved by a majority of members of the committee from each of the 3 categories in subsection (d)(2).



(f) Other committee authorities and requirements(1) Staff assistanceA resource advisory committee may submit to the Secretary concerned a request for periodic staff assistance from Federal employees under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.


(2) MeetingsAll meetings of a resource advisory committee shall be announced at least 1 week in advance in a local newspaper of record and shall be open to the public.


(3) RecordsA resource advisory committee shall maintain records of the meetings of the committee and make the records available for public inspection.



(Pub. L. 106–393, title II, § 205, as added Pub. L. 110–343, div. C, title VI, § 601(a), Oct. 3, 2008, 122 Stat. 3905; amended Pub. L. 112–141, div. F, title I, § 100101(a)(7), July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 906; Pub. L. 113–40, § 10(a)(2)(C), Oct. 2, 2013, 127 Stat. 545.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a)(4)(B) and (b)(3), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 106–393, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1607, known as the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 7101 of this title and Tables.

Codification
October 3, 2008, referred to in subsec. (c)(3), was in the original “the date of enactment of this Act”, which was translated as meaning the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–343, which enacted this section, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 205 of Pub. L. 106–393 was set out in a note under section 500 of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 110–343, div. C, title VI, § 601(a), Oct. 3, 2008, 122 Stat. 3893.

Amendments2013—Subsec. (a)(4)(A), (B). Pub. L. 113–40 substituted “2012” for “2011” wherever appearing.
2012—Subsec. (a)(4)(A), (B). Pub. L. 112–141 substituted “2011” for “2006” wherever appearing.


