§ 767. Transitional and savings provisions(a) Continuance of effective statusAll orders, determinations, rules, regulations, permits, contracts, certificates, licenses, and privileges—(1) which have been issued, made, granted, or allowed to become effective by the President, by any Federal department or agency or official thereof, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, in the performance of functions which are transferred under this chapter, and

(2) which are in effect at the time this chapter takes effect,


shall continue in effect according to their terms until modified, terminated, superseded, set aside, or revoked by the President, the Administrator, other authorized officials, a court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law.

(b) Pending proceedings; orders, appeals, paymentsThis chapter shall not affect any proceeding pending, at the time this chapter takes effect, before any department or agency (or component thereof) regarding functions which are transferred by this chapter; but such proceedings, to the extent that they relate to functions so transferred, shall be continued. Orders shall be issued in such proceedings, appeals (except as provided in section 766(i)(2) of this title) shall be taken therefrom, and payments shall be made pursuant to such orders, as if this chapter had not been enacted; and orders issued in any such proceedings shall continue in effect until modified, terminated, superseded, or revoked by a duly authorized official, by a court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to prohibit the discontinuance or modification of any such proceeding under the same terms and conditions, and to the same extent, that such proceeding could have been discontinued if this chapter had not been enacted.


(c) Commencement of suits before effective dateExcept as provided in subsection (e) of this section—(1) the provisions of this chapter shall not affect suits commenced prior to the date this chapter takes effect, and

(2) in all such suits proceedings shall be had, appeals taken, and judgments rendered, in the same manner and effect as if this chapter had not been enacted.


(d) Litigation; abatement prohibition; Federal partiesNo suit, action, or other proceeding commenced by or against any officer in his official capacity as an officer of any department or agency, functions of which are transferred by this chapter, shall abate by reason of the enactment of this chapter. No cause of action by or against any department or agency, functions of which are transferred by this chapter, or by or against any officer thereof in his official capacity shall abate by reason of the enactment of this chapter. Causes of actions, suits, actions, or other proceedings may be asserted by or against the United States or such official as may be appropriate and, in any litigation pending when this chapter takes effect, the court may at any time, on its own motion or that of any party, enter any order which will give effect to the provisions of this section.


(e) Substitution of partiesIf, before the date on which this chapter takes effect, any department or agency, or officer thereof in his official capacity, is a party to a suit, and under this chapter any function of such department, agency, or officer is transferred to the Administrator, or any other official, then such suit shall be continued as if this chapter had not been enacted, with the Administrator, or other official as the case may be, substituted.


(f) Judicial review; other requirements respecting notices, hearings, action upon record, and administrative review; conflicting provisionsFinal orders and actions of any official or component in the performance of functions transferred by this chapter shall be subject to judicial review to the same extent and in the same manner as if such orders or actions had been made or taken by the officer, department, agency, or instrumentality in the performance of such functions immediately preceding the effective date of this chapter. Any statutory requirements relating to notices, hearings, action upon the record, or administrative review that apply to any function transferred or delegated by this chapter shall apply to the performance of those functions by the Administrator, or any officer or component of the Administration. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this subsection and section 766 of this title, the provisions of section 766 of this title shall govern.


(g) References in other laws deemed references to transferee offices or officersWith respect to any function transferred by this chapter and performed after the effective date of this chapter, reference in any other law to any department or agency, or any officer or office, the functions of which are so transferred, shall be deemed to refer to the Administration, Administrator, or other office or officers in which this chapter vests such functions.


(h) Presidential functions, authorities, and delegations unaffectedNothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to limit, curtail, abolish, or terminate any function of the President which he had immediately before the effective date of this chapter; or to limit, curtail, abolish, or terminate his authority to perform such function; or to limit, curtail, abolish, or terminate his authority to delegate, redelegate, or terminate any delegations of functions.


(i) References to other provisions deemed references to such provisions as amended or supplementedAny reference in this chapter to any provision of law shall be deemed to include, as appropriate, references thereto as now or hereafter amended or supplemented.


(Pub. L. 93–275, § 8, May 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 103.)


Transfer of Functions
Federal Energy Administration terminated and functions vested by law in Administrator thereof transferred to Secretary of Energy (unless otherwise specifically provided) by sections 7151(a) and 7293 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.


