§ 7101. Degree granting authority for Naval War College(a) Authority.—Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy, the President of the Naval War College may, upon the recommendation of the faculty of the Naval War College components, confer appropriate degrees upon graduates who meet the degree requirements.

(b) Limitation.—A degree may not be conferred under this section unless—(1) the Secretary of Education has recommended approval of the degree in accordance with the Federal Policy Governing Granting of Academic Degrees by Federal Agencies; and

(2) the Naval War College is accredited by the appropriate civilian academic accrediting agency or organization to award the degree, as determined by the Secretary of Education.


(c) Congressional Notification Requirements.—(1) When seeking to establish degree granting authority under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives—(A) a copy of the self assessment questionnaire required by the Federal Policy Governing Granting of Academic Degrees by Federal Agencies, at the time the assessment is submitted to the Department of Education’s National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity; and

(B) the subsequent recommendations and rationale of the Secretary of Education regarding the establishment of the degree granting authority.


(2) Upon any modification or redesignation of existing degree granting authority, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing the rationale for the proposed modification or redesignation and any subsequent recommendation of the Secretary of Education on the proposed modification or redesignation.

(3) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing an explanation of any action by the appropriate academic accrediting agency or organization not to accredit the Naval War College to award any new or existing degree.


(Added Pub. L. 101–510, div. A, title IX, § 912(a), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1626; amended Pub. L. 110–417, [div. A], title V, § 543(f)(1), Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4461.)

Amendments2008—Pub. L. 110–417 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:
“(a) Authority.—Upon the recommendation of the faculty of the Naval War College, the President of the college may confer the degree of master of arts in national security and strategic studies upon graduates of the college who fulfill the requirements for the degree.
“(b) Regulations.—The authority provided by subsection (a) shall be exercised under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy.
“(c) Naval War College Defined.—In this section, the term ‘Naval War College’ means the College of Naval Warfare and the College of Naval Command and Staff.”

Effective Date of 2008 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 110–417 applicable to any degree granting authority established, modified, or redesignated on or after Oct. 14, 2008, for an institution of professional military education referred to in such amendment, see section 543(j) of Pub. L. 110–417, set out as a note under section 2161 of this title.


