“SEC. 209. DEFINITIONS“In this title:“(1) The term ‘Account’ means the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established by section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101–510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note).

“(2) The term ‘appropriate committees of Congress’ means the Committees on Armed Services and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

“(3) The terms ‘Commission on Base Realignment and Closure’ and ‘Commission’ mean the Commission established by the Secretary of Defense in the charter signed by the Secretary on May 3, 1988, and as altered thereafter with respect to the membership and voting.

“(4) The term ‘charter establishing such Commission’ means the charter referred to in paragraph (3).

“(5) The term ‘initiate’ includes any action reducing functions or civilian personnel positions but does not include studies, planning, or similar activities carried out before there is a reduction of such functions or positions.

“(6) The term ‘military installation’ means a base, camp, post, station, yard, center, homeport facility for any ship, or other activity under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of a military department.

“(7) The term ‘realignment’ includes any action which both reduces and relocates functions and civilian personnel positions.

“(8) The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Defense.

“(9) The term ‘United States’ means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and any other commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.

“(10) The term ‘redevelopment authority’, in the case of an installation to be closed under this title, means any entity (including an entity established by a State or local government) recognized by the Secretary of Defense as the entity responsible for developing the redevelopment plan with respect to the installation or for directing the implementation of such plan.

“(11) The term ‘redevelopment plan’ in the case of an installation to be closed under this title, means a plan that—“(A) is agreed to by the redevelopment authority with respect to the installation; and

“(B) provides for the reuse or redevelopment of the real property and personal property of the installation that is available for such reuse or redevelopment as a result of the closure of the installation.”


