§ 760aa–3. Community partnership enhancement(a) Projects and programsSubject to the requirements of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661 et seq.) and other applicable law, and such terms and conditions as the Secretary of the Interior determines to be appropriate, the Secretary may approve projects and programs for a facility of the System that—(1) promote the stewardship of resources of the hatchery through habitat maintenance, restoration, and improvement, biological monitoring, or research;

(2) support the operation and maintenance of the hatchery through constructing, operating, maintaining, or improving the facilities and services of the hatchery;

(3) increase the awareness and understanding of the hatchery and the System, through the development, publication, or distribution of educational materials and products;

(4) advance education concerning the purposes of the hatchery and the mission of the System, through the use of the hatchery as an outdoor classroom and development of other educational programs; or

(5) contribute financial resources to the hatchery, under the terms that require that the net revenues be used exclusively for the benefit of the hatchery, through donation of net revenues from the sale of educational materials and products and through encouragement of gifts, devises, and bequests.


(b) Treasury accountAmounts received by the Secretary of the Interior as a result of projects and programs under subsection (a) shall be deposited in a separate account in the Treasury. Amounts in the account that are attributable to activities at a particular facility of the System shall be available to the Secretary of the Interior, without further appropriation, to pay the costs of incidental expenses related to volunteer activities, and to carry out cooperative agreements for the hatchery facility.


(Pub. L. 109–360, § 5, Oct. 16, 2006, 120 Stat. 2060.)


References in TextThe Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is act Mar. 10, 1934, ch. 55, 48 Stat. 401, as amended, which is classified generally to sections 661 to 666c of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 661 of this title and Tables.


