§ 992. Consumer education: financial services(a) Requirement for Consumer Education Program for Members.—(1) The Secretary concerned shall carry out a program to provide comprehensive education to members of the armed forces under the jurisdiction of the Secretary on—(A) financial services that are available under law to members;

(B) financial services that are routinely offered by private sector sources to members;

(C) practices relating to the marketing of private sector financial services to members;

(D) such other matters relating to financial services available to members, and the marketing of financial services to members, as the Secretary considers appropriate; and

(E) such other financial practices as the Secretary considers appropriate.


(2) Training under this subsection shall be provided to members as—(A) a component of members initial entry orientation training; and

(B) a component of periodically recurring required training that is provided for the members at military installations.


(3) The training provided at a military installation under paragraph (2)(B) shall include information on any financial services marketing practices that are particularly prevalent at that military installation and in the vicinity.


(b) Counseling for Members and Spouses.—(1) The Secretary concerned shall, upon request, provide counseling on financial services to each member of the armed forces, and such member’s spouse, under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.

(2)(A) In the case of a military installation at which at least 2,000 members of the armed forces on active duty are assigned, the Secretary concerned—(i) shall provide counseling on financial services under this subsection through a full-time financial services counselor at such installation; and

(ii) may provide such counseling at such installation by any means elected by the Secretary from among the following:(I) Through members of the armed forces in pay grade E–7 or above, or civilians, who provide such counseling as part of their other duties for the armed forces or the Department of Defense.

(II) By contract, including contract for services by telephone and by the Internet.

(III) Through qualified representatives of nonprofit organizations and agencies under formal agreements with the Department of Defense to provide such counseling.



(B) In the case of any military installation not described in subparagraph (A), the Secretary concerned shall provide counseling on financial services under this subsection at such installation by any of the means set forth in subparagraph (A)(ii), as elected by the Secretary concerned.


(3) Each financial services counselor under paragraph (2)(A)(i), and any other individual providing counseling on financial services under paragraph (2), shall be an individual who, by reason of education, training, or experience, is qualified to provide helpful counseling to members of the armed forces and their spouses on financial services and marketing practices described in subsection (a)(1). Such individual may be a member of the armed forces or an employee of the Federal Government.

(4) The Secretary concerned shall take such action as is necessary to ensure that each financial services counselor under paragraph (2)(A)(i), and any other individual providing counseling on financial services under paragraphs (2), is free from conflicts of interest relevant to the performance of duty under this section and, in the performance of that duty, is dedicated to furnishing members of the armed forces and their spouses with helpful information and counseling on financial services and related marketing practices.


(c) Life Insurance.—In counseling a member of the armed forces, or spouse of a member of the armed forces, under this section regarding life insurance offered by a private sector source, a financial services counselor under subsection (b)(2)(A)(i), or another individual providing counseling on financial services under subsection (b)(2), shall furnish the member or spouse, as the case may be, with information on the availability of Servicemembers’ Group Life Insurance under subchapter III of chapter 19 of title 38, including information on the amounts of coverage available and the procedures for electing coverage and the amount of coverage.

(d) Financial Services Defined.—In this section, the term “financial services” includes the following:(1) Life insurance, casualty insurance, and other insurance.

(2) Investments in securities or financial instruments.

(3) Banking, credit, loans, deferred payment plans, and mortgages.


(Added Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 578(a)(1), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3274; amended Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title X, § 1073(a)(8), Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2472.)

Amendments2009—Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 111–84 struck out period after “under this section”.

Effective Date of 2006 AmendmentPub. L. 109–163, div. A, title V, § 578(b), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3276, provided that: “The amendments made by this section [enacting this section] shall take effect on the first day of the first month that begins more than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 6, 2006].”


Counseling on Mortgage Foreclosures for Members of the Armed Forces Returning From Service AbroadPub. L. 110–289, div. B, title II, § 2202, July 30, 2008, 122 Stat. 2849, provided that:
“(a) In General.—The Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement a program to advise members of the Armed Forces (including members of the National Guard and Reserve) who are returning from service on active duty abroad (including service in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom) on actions to be taken by such members to prevent or forestall mortgage foreclosures.

“(b) Elements.—The program required by subsection (a) shall include the following:“(1) Credit counseling.

“(2) Home mortgage counseling.

“(3) Such other counseling and information as the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of the program.


“(c) Timing of Provision of Counseling.—Counseling and other information under the program required by subsection (a) shall be provided to a member of the Armed Forces covered by the program as soon as practicable after the return of the member from service as described in subsection (a).”




Military Personnel Financial Services Protection
Pub. L. 109–290, Sept. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 1317, provided that:
“SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.“(a) Short Title.—This Act may be cited as the ‘Military Personnel Financial Services Protection Act’.

“(b) Table of Contents.—[Omitted]

