§ 790c. Analysis and evaluation of energy information; establishment and maintenance by Director of professional, etc., capability; specific capabilities(a) The Director shall establish and maintain the scientific, engineering, statistical, or other technical capability to perform analysis of energy information to—(1) verify the accuracy of items of energy information submitted to the Director; and

(2) insure the coordination and comparability of the energy information in possession of the Office and other Federal agencies.


(b) The Director shall establish and maintain the professional and analytic capability to evaluate independently the adequacy and comprehensiveness of the energy information in possession of the Office and other agencies of the Federal Government in relation to the purposes of this chapter and for the performance of the analyses described in section 790a of this title. Such analytic capability shall include—(1) expertise in economics, finance, and accounting;

(2) the capability to evaluate estimates of reserves of mineral fuels and nonmineral energy resources utilizing alternative methodologies;

(3) the development and evaluation of energy flow and accounting models describing the production, distribution, and consumption of energy by the various sectors of the economy and lines of commerce in the energy industry;

(4) the development and evaluation of alternative forecasting models describing the short- and long-term relationships between energy supply and consumption and appropriate variables; and

(5) such other capabilities as the Director deems necessary to achieve the purposes of this chapter.


(Pub. L. 93–275, § 54, as added Pub. L. 94–385, title I, § 142, Aug. 14, 1976, 90 Stat. 1137.)

Effective DateSection effective 150 days after Aug. 14, 1976, see section 143 of Pub. L. 94–385, set out as a note under section 790 of this title.


Transfer of Functions
Functions assigned to Director of Office of Energy Information and Analysis under this subchapter vested in Administrator of the Energy Information Administration within Department of Energy by section 7135(c) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.
Federal Energy Administration terminated and functions vested by law in Administrator thereof transferred to Secretary of Energy (unless otherwise specifically provided) by sections 7151(a) and 7293 of Title 42.


