§ 657d. Federal and State Technology Partnership Program(a) DefinitionsIn this section and section 657e of this title, the following definitions apply:(1) ApplicantThe term “applicant” means an entity, organization, or individual that submits a proposal for an award or a cooperative agreement under this section.


(2) Business advice and counselingThe term “business advice and counseling” means providing advice and assistance on matters described in section 657e(c)(2)(B) of this title to small business concerns to guide them through the SBIR and STTR program process, from application to award and successful completion of each phase of the program.


(3) FAST programThe term “FAST program” means the Federal and State Technology Partnership Program established under this section.


(4) MentorThe term “mentor” means an individual described in section 657e(c)(2) of this title.


(5) Mentoring NetworkThe term “Mentoring Network” means an association, organization, coalition, or other entity (including an individual) that meets the requirements of section 657e(c) of this title.


(6) RecipientThe term “recipient” means a person that receives an award or becomes party to a cooperative agreement under this section.


(7) SBIR programThe term “SBIR program” has the same meaning as in section 638(e)(4) of this title.


(8) StateThe term “State” means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa.


(9) STTR programThe term “STTR program” has the same meaning as in section 638(e)(6) of this title.



(b) Establishment of ProgramThe Administrator shall establish a program to be known as the Federal and State Technology Partnership Program, the purpose of which shall be to strengthen the technological competitiveness of small business concerns in the States.


(c) Grants and cooperative agreements(1) Joint reviewIn carrying out the FAST program under this section, the Administrator and the SBIR program managers at the National Science Foundation and the Department of Defense shall jointly review proposals submitted by applicants and may make awards or enter into cooperative agreements under this section based on the factors for consideration set forth in paragraph (2), in order to enhance or develop in a State—(A) technology research and development by small business concerns;

(B) technology transfer from university research to technology-based small business concerns;

(C) technology deployment and diffusion benefiting small business concerns;

(D) the technological capabilities of small business concerns through the establishment or operation of consortia comprised of entities, organizations, or individuals, including—(i) State and local development agencies and entities;

(ii) representatives of technology-based small business concerns;

(iii) industries and emerging companies;

(iv) universities; and

(v) small business development centers; and


(E) outreach, financial support, and technical assistance to technology-based small business concerns participating in or interested in participating in an SBIR program, including initiatives—(i) to make grants or loans to companies to pay a portion or all of the cost of developing SBIR proposals;

(ii) to establish or operate a Mentoring Network within the FAST program to provide business advice and counseling that will assist small business concerns that have been identified by FAST program participants, program managers of participating SBIR agencies, the Administration, or other entities that are knowledgeable about the SBIR and STTR programs as good candidates for the SBIR and STTR programs, and that would benefit from mentoring, in accordance with section 657e of this title;

(iii) to create or participate in a training program for individuals providing SBIR outreach and assistance at the State and local levels; and

(iv) to encourage the commercialization of technology developed through SBIR program funding.



(2) Selection considerationsIn making awards or entering into cooperative agreements under this section, the Administrator and the SBIR program managers referred to in paragraph (1)—(A) may only consider proposals by applicants that intend to use a portion of the Federal assistance provided under this section to provide outreach, financial support, or technical assistance to technology-based small business concerns participating in or interested in participating in the SBIR program; and

(B) shall consider, at a minimum—(i) whether the applicant has demonstrated that the assistance to be provided would address unmet needs of small business concerns in the community, and whether it is important to use Federal funding for the proposed activities;

(ii) whether the applicant has demonstrated that a need exists to increase the number or success of small high-technology businesses in the State, as measured by the number of first phase and second phase SBIR awards that have historically been received by small business concerns in the State;

(iii) whether the projected costs of the proposed activities are reasonable;

(iv) whether the proposal integrates and coordinates the proposed activities with other State and local programs assisting small high-technology firms in the State;

(v) the manner in which the applicant will measure the results of the activities to be conducted; and

(vi) whether the proposal addresses the needs of small business concerns—(I) owned and controlled by women;

(II) owned and controlled by minorities; and

(III) located in areas that have historically not participated in the SBIR and STTR programs.




(3) Proposal limitNot more than one proposal may be submitted for inclusion in the FAST program under this section to provide services in any one State in any 1 fiscal year.


(4) ProcessProposals and applications for assistance under this section shall be in such form and subject to such procedures as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promulgate regulations establishing standards for the consideration of proposals under paragraph (2), including standards regarding each of the considerations identified in paragraph (2)(B).



(d) Cooperation and coordinationIn carrying out the FAST program under this section, the Administrator shall cooperate and coordinate with—(1) Federal agencies required by section 638 of this title to have an SBIR program; and

(2) entities, organizations, and individuals actively engaged in enhancing or developing the technological capabilities of small business concerns, including—(A) State and local development agencies and entities;

(B) State committees established under the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research of the National Science Foundation (as established under section 1862g of title 42);

(C) State science and technology councils; and

(D) representatives of technology-based small business concerns.



(e) Administrative requirements(1) Competitive basisAwards and cooperative agreements under this section shall be made or entered into, as applicable, on a competitive basis.


(2) Matching requirements(A) In generalThe non-Federal share of the cost of an activity (other than a planning activity) carried out using an award or under a cooperative agreement under this section shall be—(i) 50 cents for each Federal dollar, in the case of a recipient that will serve small business concerns located in one of the 18 States receiving the fewest SBIR first phase awards (as described in section 638(e)(4)(A) of this title);

(ii) except as provided in subparagraph (B), 1 dollar for each Federal dollar, in the case of a recipient that will serve small business concerns located in one of the 16 States receiving the greatest number of such SBIR first phase awards; and

(iii) except as provided in subparagraph (B), 75 cents for each Federal dollar, in the case of a recipient that will serve small business concerns located in a State that is not described in clause (i) or (ii) that is receiving such SBIR first phase awards.


(B) Low-income areasThe non-Federal share of the cost of the activity carried out using an award or under a cooperative agreement under this section shall be 50 cents for each Federal dollar that will be directly allocated by a recipient described in subparagraph (A) to serve small business concerns located in a qualified census tract, as that term is defined in section 42(d)(5)(C)(ii) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 26. Federal dollars not so allocated by that recipient shall be subject to the matching requirements of subparagraph (A).


(C) Types of fundingThe non-Federal share of the cost of an activity carried out by a recipient shall be comprised of not less than 50 percent cash and not more than 50 percent of indirect costs and in-kind contributions, except that no such costs or contributions may be derived from funds from any other Federal program.


(D) RankingsFor purposes of subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall reevaluate the ranking of a State once every 2 fiscal years, beginning with fiscal year 2001, based on the most recent statistics compiled by the Administrator.



(3) DurationAwards may be made or cooperative agreements entered into under this section for multiple years, not to exceed 5 years in total.



(f) Reports(1) Initial reportNot later than 120 days after December 21, 2000, the Administrator shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Small Business of the Senate and the Committee on Science and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report, which shall include, with respect to the FAST program, including Mentoring Networks—(A) a description of the structure and procedures of the program;

(B) a management plan for the program; and

(C) a description of the merit-based review process to be used in the program.


(2) Annual reportsThe Administrator shall submit an annual report to the Committee on Small Business of the Senate and the Committee on Science and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives regarding—(A) the number and amount of awards provided and cooperative agreements entered into under the FAST program during the preceding year;

(B) a list of recipients under this section, including their location and the activities being performed with the awards made or under the cooperative agreements entered into; and

(C) the Mentoring Networks and the mentoring database, as provided for under section 657e of this title, including—(i) the status of the inclusion of mentoring information in the database required by section 638(k) of this title; and

(ii) the status of the implementation and description of the usage of the Mentoring Networks.




(g) Reviews by Inspector General(1) In generalThe Inspector General of the Administration shall conduct a review of—(A) the extent to which recipients under the FAST program are measuring the performance of the activities being conducted and the results of such measurements; and

(B) the overall management and effectiveness of the FAST program.


(2) ReportDuring the first quarter of fiscal year 2004, the Inspector General of the Administration shall submit a report to the Committee on Small Business of the Senate and the Committee on Science and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives on the review conducted under paragraph (1).



(h) Program levels(1) In generalThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the FAST program, including Mentoring Networks, under this section and section 657e of this title, $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2001 through 2005.


(2) Mentoring databaseOf the total amount made available under paragraph (1) for fiscal years 2001 through 2005, a reasonable amount, not to exceed a total of $500,000, may be used by the Administration to carry out section 657e(d) of this title.



(i) TerminationThe authority to carry out the FAST program under this section shall terminate on September 30, 2005.


(Pub. L. 85–536, § 2[34], as added Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(9) [title I, § 111(b)(2)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A–674; amended Pub. L. 107–50, § 8, Oct. 15, 2001, 115 Stat. 265.)


References in TextSubpar. (C) of section 42(d)(5) of title 26, referred to in subsec. (e)(2)(B), was redesignated (B) by Pub. L. 110–289, div. C, title I, § 3003(g)(3), July 30, 2008, 122 Stat. 2882.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 2[34] of Pub. L. 85–536 was renumbered section 2[47] and is set out as a note under section 631 of this title.

Amendments2001—Subsec. (c)(2)(B)(vi). Pub. L. 107–50, § 8(a), added cl. (vi).
Subsec. (c)(4). Pub. L. 107–50, § 8(b), inserted at end “The Administrator shall promulgate regulations establishing standards for the consideration of proposals under paragraph (2), including standards regarding each of the considerations identified in paragraph (2)(B).”


Change of Name
Committee on Small Business of Senate changed to Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of Senate. See Senate Resolution No. 123, One Hundred Seventh Congress, June 29, 2001.
Committee on Science of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007. Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.

FindingsPub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(9) [title I, § 111(a)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A–674, provided that: 
“Congress finds that—
“(1) programs to foster economic development among small high-technology firms vary widely among the States;

“(2) States that do not aggressively support the development of small high-technology firms, including participation by small business concerns in the SBIR program, are at a competitive disadvantage in establishing a business climate that is conducive to technology development; and

“(3) building stronger national, State, and local support for science and technology research in these disadvantaged States will expand economic opportunities in the United States, create jobs, and increase the competitiveness of the United States in the world market.”





