§ 70. Definitions
As used in this subchapter—(a) The term “person” means an individual, partnership, corporation, association or any other form of business enterprise.

(b) The term “fiber” or “textile fiber” means a unit of matter which is capable of being spun into a yarn or made into a fabric by bonding or by interlacing in a variety of methods including weaving, knitting, braiding, felting, twisting, or webbing, and which is the basic structural element of textile products.

(c) The term “natural fiber” means any fiber that exists as such in the natural state.

(d) The term “manufactured fiber” means any fiber derived by a process of manufacture from any substance which, at any point in the manufacturing process, is not a fiber.

(e) The term “yarn” means a strand of textile fiber in a form suitable for weaving, knitting, braiding, felting, webbing, or otherwise fabricating into a fabric.

(f) The term “fabric” means any material woven, knitted, felted, or otherwise produced from, or in combination with, any natural or manufactured fiber, yarn, or substitute therefor.

(g) The term “household textile articles” means articles of wearing apparel, costumes and accessories, draperies, floor coverings, furnishings, beddings, and other textile goods of a type customarily used in a household regardless of where used in fact.

(h) The term “textile fiber product” means—(1) any fiber, whether in the finished or unfinished state, used or intended for use in household textile articles;

(2) any yarn or fabric, whether in the finished or unfinished state, used or intended for use in household textile articles; and

(3) any household textile article made in whole or in part of yarn or fabric;


except that such term does not include a product required to be labeled under the Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 [15 U.S.C. 68 et seq.].

(i) The term “affixed” means attached to the textile fiber product in any manner.

(j) The term “Commission” means the Federal Trade Commission.

(k) The term “commerce” means commerce among the several States or with foreign nations, or in any Territory of the United States or in the District of Columbia, or between any such Territory and another, or between any such Territory and any State or foreign nation or between the District of Columbia and any State or Territory or foreign nation.

(l) The term “Territory” includes the insular possessions of the United States, and also any Territory of the United States.

(m) The term “ultimate consumer” means a person who obtains a textile fiber product by purchase or exchange with no intent to sell or exchange such textile fiber product in any form.

(Pub. L. 85–897, § 2, Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1717.)


References in TextThe Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939, referred to in subsec. (h)(3), is act Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 871, 54 Stat. 1128, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 68 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 68 of this title and Tables.

Effective DatePub. L. 85–897, § 15, Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1724, provided that: “This Act [this subchapter] shall take effect eighteen months after enactment [Sept. 2, 1958], except for the promulgation of rules and regulations by the Commission, which shall be promulgated within nine months after the enactment of this Act. The Commission shall provide for the exception of any textile fiber product acquired prior to the effective date of this Act.”


Short TitlePub. L. 85–897, § 1, Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1717, provided: “That this Act [this subchapter] may be cited as the ‘Textile Fiber Products Identification Act’.”


SeparabilityPub. L. 85–897, § 13, Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1723, provided that: “If any provision of this Act [this subchapter], or the application thereof to any person, as that term is herein defined, is held invalid, the remainder of the Act and the application of the remaining provisions to any person shall not be affected thereby.”



