“SEC. 863. ANNUAL JOINT REPORT ON CONTRACTING IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN.“(a) In General.—Except as provided in subsection (f), every 12 months, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall submit to the relevant committees of Congress a joint report on contracts in Iraq or Afghanistan.

“(b) Primary Matters Covered.—A report under this section shall, at a minimum, cover the following with respect to contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan during the reporting period:“(1) Total number of contracts awarded.

“(2) Total number of active contracts.

“(3) Total value of all contracts awarded.

“(4) Total value of active contracts.

“(5) The extent to which such contracts have used competitive procedures.

“(6) Percentage of contracts awarded on a competitive basis as compared to established goals for competition in contingency contracting actions.

“(7) Total number of contractor personnel working on contracts at the end of each quarter of the reporting period.

“(8) Total number of contractor personnel who are performing security functions at the end of each quarter of the reporting period.

“(9) Total number of contractor personnel killed or wounded.


“(c) Additional Matters Covered.—A report under this section shall also cover the following:“(1) The sources of information and data used to compile the information required under subsection (b).

“(2) A description of any known limitations of the data reported under subsection (b), including known limitations of the methodology and data sources used to compile the report.

“(3) Any plans for strengthening collection, coordination, and sharing of information on contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan through improvements to the common databases identified under section 861(b)(4).


“(d) Reporting Period.—A report under this section shall cover a period of not less than 12 months.

“(e) Submission of Reports.—The Secretaries and the Administrator shall submit an initial report under this section not later than February 1, 2011, and shall submit an updated report by February 1 of every year thereafter until February 1, 2015.

“(f) Exception.—If the total annual amount of obligations for contracts in Iraq and Afghanistan combined is less than $250,000,000 for the reporting period, for all three agencies combined, the Secretaries and the Administrator may submit, in lieu of a report, a letter stating the applicability of this subsection, with such documentation as the Secretaries and the Administrator consider appropriate.

“(g) Estimates.—In determining the total number of contractor personnel working on contracts under subsection (b)(6), the Secretaries and the Administrator may use estimates for any category of contractor personnel for which they determine it is not feasible to provide an actual count. The report shall fully disclose the extent to which estimates are used in lieu of an actual count.

