§ 3307. Administration(a) Authority of Chairman of CouncilThe Chairman of the Council is authorized to carry out and to delegate the authority to carry out the internal administration of the Council, including the appointment and supervision of employees and the distribution of business among members, employees, and administrative units.


(b) Use of personnel, services, and facilities of Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies, Federal Reserve banks, and Federal Home Loan Banksin 11 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. addition to any other authority conferred upon it by this chapter, in carrying out its functions under this chapter, the Council may utilize, with their consent and to the extent practical, the personnel, services, and facilities of the Federal financial institutions regulatory agencies, Federal Reserve banks, and Federal Home Loan Banks, with or without reimbursement therefor.


(c) Compensation, authority, and duties of officers and employees; experts and consultantsIn addition, the Council may—(1) subject to the provisions of title 5 relating to the competitive service, classification, and General Schedule pay rates, appoint and fix the compensation of such officers and employees as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, and to prescribe the authority and duties of such officers and employees; and

(2) obtain the services of such experts and consultants as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.


(Pub. L. 95–630, title X, § 1008, Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3696.)


References in TextThe provisions of title 5 relating to the competitive service, referred to in subsec. (c), are classified generally to section 3301 et seq. of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
The provisions of title 5 relating to classification, referred to in subsec. (c), are classified generally to chapter 51 (§ 5101 et seq.) and to subchapter III (§ 5331 et seq.) of chapter 53 of Title 5.
The provisions of title 5 relating to General Schedule pay rates, referred to in subsec. (c), are set out under section 5332 of Title 5.


