“Sec. 4. (a) Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this Act, the Secretary is authorized and directed to expend, at the request of the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians, the principal of, and income accruing on, the land acquisition fund established for such Band under subsections (c) and (d)(1) of section 5 of the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980 (25 U.S.C. 1724; 94 Stat. 1789) for the purposes of acquiring land or natural resources for such Band and for no other purpose. Land or natural resources so acquired within the State of Maine for such Band shall be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of such Band.

“(b)(1) Land or natural resources acquired with funds expended under the authority of subsection (a) and held in trust for the benefit of the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians may be alienated only by—“(A) takings for public use pursuant to the laws of the State of Maine as provided in subsection (c),

“(B) takings for public use pursuant to the laws of the United States,

“(C) transfers authorized by section 5(g)(3) of the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980 (25 U.S.C. 1724(g)(3); 94 Stat. 1791), or

“(D) transfers made pursuant to an Act or joint resolution of Congress.


All other transfers of land or natural resources acquired with funds expended under the authority of subsection (a) and held in trust for the benefit of such Band shall be void ab initio and without any validity in law or equity.

“(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall not prohibit or limit transfers of individual use assignments of land or natural resources from one member of the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians to another member of such Band.


“(c)(1) Land or natural resources acquired with funds expended under the authority of subsection (a) and held in trust for the benefit of the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians may be condemned for public purposes by the State of Maine, or any political subdivision thereof, only upon such terms and conditions as shall be agreed upon in writing between the State and such Band after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 27, 1986].

“(2) The consent of the United States is hereby given to the State of Maine to further amend the amended Maine Implementing Act for the purpose of embodying the agreement described in paragraph (1).


“(d)(1) Lands and natural resources may be acquired by the Secretary for the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians only if the Secretary has, at any time prior to such acquisition—“(A) transmitted a letter to the Secretary of State of the State of Maine stating that the Houlton Band Tax Fund contains $200,000, and

“(B) provided the Secretary of State of the State of Maine with a copy of the procedures for filing and payment of claims prescribed under section 3(f).


“(2)(A) No land or natural resources may be acquired by the Secretary for the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians until the Secretary—“(i) files with the Secretary of State of the State of Maine a certified copy of the deed, contract, or other conveyance setting forth the location and boundaries of the land or natural resources to be acquired by the Secretary, or

“(ii) files with the Secretary of State of the State of Maine a certified copy of any instrument setting forth the location and boundaries of the land or natural resources to be acquired.


“(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), filing with the Secretary of State of the State of Maine may be made by mail and, if such method of filing is used, shall be considered to be completed on the date on which the document is properly mailed to the Secretary of State of the State of Maine.”



