§ 76i. John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts(a) In generalThe Board shall construct for the Smithsonian Institution, with funds raised by voluntary contributions, a building to be designated as the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts on a site in the District of Columbia bounded by the Inner Loop Freeway on the east, the Theodore Roosevelt Bridge approaches on the south, Rock Creek Parkway on the west, New Hampshire Avenue and F Street on the north, which shall be selected for such purpose by the National Capital Planning Commission. The National Capital Planning Commission shall acquire by purchase, condemnation, or otherwise, lands necessary to provide for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and related facilities. Such building shall be in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Commission of Fine Arts.


(b) Parking garage additions and site improvements(1) In generalSubstantially in accordance with the plan entitled “Site Master Plan—Drawing Number 1997–2 April 29, 1997,” and map number NCR 844/82571, the Board may design and construct—(A) an addition to the parking garage at each of the north and south ends of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; and

(B) site improvements and modifications.


(2) AvailabilityThe plan shall be on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Secretary of the Center.


(3) Limitation on use of appropriated fundsNo appropriated funds may be used to pay the costs (including the repayment of obligations incurred to finance costs) of—(A) the design and construction of an addition to the parking garage authorized under paragraph (1)(A);

(B) the design and construction of site improvements and modifications authorized under paragraph (1)(B) that the Board specifically designates will be financed using sources other than appropriated funds; or

(C) any project to acquire large screen format equipment for an interpretive theater, or to produce an interpretive film, that the Board specifically designates will be financed using sources other than appropriated funds.



(c) Expansion project(1) Authority to construct(A) In generalSubject to the requirements of this subsection, the Board may undertake such activities as may be necessary to construct the expansion project.


(B) Responsibilities of the BoardThe Board may construct the expansion project, and shall be responsible for the planning, design, engineering, and construction of the expansion project.


(C) Limitations(i) MissionAll activities carried out under this paragraph shall be within the mission of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts to serve as the national center for the performing arts.


(ii) FundingThe costs of planning, design, engineering, and construction of the expansion project shall be paid for using nonappropriated funds.




(2) Annual operations and maintenance costs(A) EstimatesBefore awarding a contract for construction of the expansion project, the Board shall estimate any additional annual operations and maintenance costs (or savings) associated with the project.


(B) Budget requestsThe Board shall account for any additional costs identified under subparagraph (A) in making a budget request for fiscal year 2014 and each fiscal year thereafter.


(C) Budget prioritiesThe Board shall base a final determination on whether to proceed with the expansion project on the ability of the Board to accommodate any additional costs identified under subparagraph (A) within the other budget priorities of the Board.



(3) AcknowledgmentsThe Board may acknowledge private contributions used in carrying out the expansion project in the interior of the project, but may not acknowledge such private contributions on the exterior of the project. Any acknowledgment of private contributions under this paragraph shall be consistent with the requirements of section 76j(b) of this title.


(4) Expansion project definedIn this subsection, the term “expansion project” means an addition to the south end of the building of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts that—(A) is less than 100,000 square feet;

(B) will improve the existing (as of June 8, 2012) accessibility and education functions of the Center; and

(C) will become part of the existing (as of June 8, 2012) structure of the Center.



(Pub. L. 85–874, § 3, Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1699; Pub. L. 88–260, § 1(2), Jan. 23, 1964, 78 Stat. 4; Pub. L. 105–95, § 2, Nov. 19, 1997, 111 Stat. 2148; Pub. L. 112–131, § 2, June 8, 2012, 126 Stat. 377.)

Amendments2012—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 112–131 added subsec. (c).
1997—Pub. L. 105–95 substituted section catchline for former section catchline, designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and inserted heading, and added subsec. (b).
1964—Pub. L. 88–260 substituted “John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts” for “National Cultural Center” wherever appearing.


