“SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.“(a) Establishment.—There is established a Presidential Commission, to be known as the ‘Presidential Advisory Commission on Holocaust Assets in the United States’ (hereafter in this Act referred to as the ‘Commission’).

“(b) Membership.—“(1) Number.—The Commission shall be composed of 21 members, appointed in accordance with paragraph (2).

“(2) Appointments.—Of the 21 members of the Commission—“(A) eight shall be private citizens, appointed by the President;

“(B) four shall be representatives of the Department of State, the Department of Justice, the Department of the Army, and the Department of the Treasury (one representative of each such Department), appointed by the President;

“(C) two shall be Members of the House of Representatives, appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;

“(D) two shall be Members of the House of Representatives, appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives;

“(E) two shall be Members of the Senate, appointed by the majority leader of the Senate;

“(F) two shall be Members of the Senate, appointed by the minority leader of the Senate; and

“(G) one shall be the Chairperson of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.


“(3) Criteria for membership.—Each private citizen appointed to the Commission shall be an individual who has a record of demonstrated leadership on issues relating to the Holocaust or in the fields of commerce, culture, or education that would assist the Commission in analyzing the disposition of the assets of Holocaust victims.

“(4) Advisory panels.—The Chairperson of the Commission may, in the discretion of the Chairperson, establish advisory panels to the Commission, including State or local officials, representatives of organizations having an interest in the work of the Commission, or others having expertise that is relevant to the purposes of the Commission.

“(5) Date.—The appointments of the members of the Commission shall be made not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act [June 23, 1998].


“(c) Chairperson.—The Chairperson of the Commission shall be selected by the President from among the members of the Commission appointed under subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (b)(2).

“(d) Period of Appointment.—Members of the Commission shall be appointed for the life of the Commission.

“(e) Vacancies.—Any vacancy in the membership of the Commission shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.

“(f) Meetings.—The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairperson at any time after the date of appointment of the Chairperson.

“(g) Quorum.—11 members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold meetings.

