§ 7112. Reservation of State funds for safe and drug-free schools(a) State reservation for the chief executive officer of a State(1) In generalThe chief executive officer of a State may reserve not more than 20 percent of the total amount allocated to a State under section 7111(b) of this title for each fiscal year to award competitive grants and contracts to local educational agencies, community-based organizations (including community anti-drug coalitions) other public entities and private organizations, and consortia thereof. Such grants and contracts shall be used to carry out the comprehensive State plan described in section 7113(a) of this title through programs or activities that complement and support activities of local educational agencies described in section 7115(b) of this title. Such officer shall award grants based on—(A) the quality of the program or activity proposed; and

(B) how the program or activity meets the principles of effectiveness described in section 7115(a) of this title.


(2) PriorityIn making such grants and contracts under this section, a chief executive officer shall give priority to programs and activities that prevent illegal drug use and violence for—(A) children and youth who are not normally served by State educational agencies or local educational agencies; or

(B) populations that need special services or additional resources (such as youth in juvenile detention facilities, runaway or homeless children and youth, pregnant and parenting teenagers, and school dropouts).


(3) Special considerationIn awarding funds under paragraph (1), a chief executive officer shall give special consideration to grantees that pursue a comprehensive approach to drug and violence prevention that includes providing and incorporating mental health services related to drug and violence prevention in their program.


(4) Peer reviewGrants or contracts awarded under this section shall be subject to a peer review process.


(5) Use of fundsGrants and contracts under this section shall be used to implement drug and violence prevention activities, including—(A) activities that complement and support local educational agency activities under section 7115 of this title, including developing and implementing activities to prevent and reduce violence associated with prejudice and intolerance;

(B) dissemination of information about drug and violence prevention; and

(C) development and implementation of community-wide drug and violence prevention planning and organizing.


(6) Administrative costsThe chief executive officer of a State may use not more than 3 percent of the amount described in paragraph (1) for the administrative costs incurred in carrying out the duties of such officer under this section.



(b) In State distribution(1) In generalA State educational agency shall distribute not less than 93 percent of the amount made available to the State under section 7111(b) of this title, less the amount reserved under subsection (a) of this section, to its local educational agencies.


(2) State administration costs(A) In generalA State educational agency may use not more than 3 percent of the amount made available to the State under section 7111(b) of this title for each fiscal year less the amount reserved under subsection (a) of this section, for State educational agency administrative costs, including the implementation of the uniform management information and reporting system as provided for under subsection (c)(3) of this section.


(B) Additional amounts for the uniform management information systemIn the case of fiscal year 2002, a State educational agency may, in addition to amounts provided for in subparagraph (A), use 1 percent of the amount made available to the State educational agency under section 7111(b) of this title for each fiscal year less the amount reserved under subsection (a) of this section, for implementation of the uniform management information and reporting system as provided for under subsection (c)(3) of this section.




(c) State activities(1) In generalA State educational agency may use not more than 5 percent of the amount made available to the State under section 7111(b) of this title for each fiscal year less the amount reserved under subsection (a) of this section, for activities described in this subsection.


(2) ActivitiesA State educational agency shall use the amounts described in paragraph (1), either directly, or through grants and contracts, to plan, develop, and implement capacity building, technical assistance and training, evaluation, program improvement services, and coordination activities for local educational agencies, community-based organizations, and other public and private entities. Such uses—(A) shall meet the principles of effectiveness described in section 7115(a) of this title;

(B) shall complement and support local uses of funds under section 7115(b) of this title;

(C) shall be in accordance with the purposes of this part; and

(D) may include, among others activities—(i) identification, development, evaluation, and dissemination of drug and violence prevention strategies, programs, activities, and other information;

(ii) training, technical assistance, and demonstration projects to address violence that is associated with prejudice and intolerance; and

(iii) financial assistance to enhance drug and violence prevention resources available in areas that serve large numbers of low-income children, are sparsely populated, or have other special needs.



(3) Uniform management information and reporting system(A) Information and statisticsA State shall establish a uniform management information and reporting system.


(B) Uses of fundsA State may use funds described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (b)(2) of this section, either directly or through grants and contracts, to implement the uniform management information and reporting system described in subparagraph (A), for the collection of information on—(i) truancy rates;

(ii) the frequency, seriousness, and incidence of violence and drug-related offenses resulting in suspensions and expulsions in elementary schools and secondary schools in the State;

(iii) the types of curricula, programs, and services provided by the chief executive officer, the State educational agency, local educational agencies, and other recipients of funds under this subpart; and

(iv) the incidence and prevalence, age of onset, perception of health risk, and perception of social disapproval of drug use and violence by youth in schools and communities.


(C) Compilation of statisticsIn compiling the statistics required for the uniform management information and reporting system, the offenses described in subparagraph (B)(ii) shall be defined pursuant to the State’s criminal code, but shall not identify victims of crimes or persons accused of crimes. The collected data shall include incident reports by school officials, anonymous student surveys, and anonymous teacher surveys.


(D) ReportingThe information described under subparagraph (B) shall be reported to the public and the data referenced in clauses (i) and (ii) of such subparagraph shall be reported to the State on a school-by-school basis.


(E) LimitationNothing in this subsection shall be construed to authorize the Secretary to require particular policies, procedures, or practices with respect to crimes committed on school property or school security.




(Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4112, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title IV, § 401, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1736.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 7112, Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4112, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3675, related to State applications, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110. See section 7113 of this title.


