§ 1011i. Drug and alcohol abuse prevention(a) Restriction on eligibilityNotwithstanding any other provision of law, no institution of higher education shall be eligible to receive funds or any other form of financial assistance under any Federal program, including participation in any federally funded or guaranteed student loan program, unless the institution certifies to the Secretary that the institution has adopted and has implemented a program to prevent the use of illicit drugs and the abuse of alcohol by students and employees that, at a minimum, includes—(1) the annual distribution to each student and employee of—(A) standards of conduct that clearly prohibit, at a minimum, the unlawful possession, use, or distribution of illicit drugs and alcohol by students and employees on the institution’s property or as part of any of the institution’s activities;

(B) a description of the applicable legal sanctions under local, State, or Federal law for the unlawful possession or distribution of illicit drugs and alcohol;

(C) a description of the health-risks associated with the use of illicit drugs and the abuse of alcohol;

(D) a description of any drug or alcohol counseling, treatment, or rehabilitation or re-entry programs that are available to employees or students; and

(E) a clear statement that the institution will impose sanctions on students and employees (consistent with local, State, and Federal law), and a description of those sanctions, up to and including expulsion or termination of employment and referral for prosecution, for violations of the standards of conduct required by subparagraph (A); and


(2) a biennial review by the institution of the institution’s program to—(A) determine the program’s effectiveness and implement changes to the program if the changes are needed;

(B) determine the number of drug and alcohol-related violations and fatalities that—(i) occur on the institution’s campus (as defined in section 1092(f)(6) of this title), or as part of any of the institution’s activities; and

(ii) are reported to campus officials;


(C) determine the number and type of sanctions described in paragraph (1)(E) that are imposed by the institution as a result of drug and alcohol-related violations and fatalities on the institution’s campus or as part of any of the institution’s activities; and

(D) ensure that the sanctions required by paragraph (1)(E) are consistently enforced.



(b) Information availabilityEach institution of higher education that provides the certification required by subsection (a) of this section shall, upon request, make available to the Secretary and to the public a copy of each item required by subsection (a)(1) of this section as well as the results of the biennial review required by subsection (a)(2) of this section.


(c) Regulations(1) In generalThe Secretary shall publish regulations to implement and enforce the provisions of this section, including regulations that provide for—(A) the periodic review of a representative sample of programs required by subsection (a) of this section; and

(B) a range of responses and sanctions for institutions of higher education that fail to implement their programs or to consistently enforce their sanctions, including information and technical assistance, the development of a compliance agreement, and the termination of any form of Federal financial assistance.


(2) Rehabilitation programThe sanctions required by subsection (a)(1)(E) of this section may include the completion of an appropriate rehabilitation program.



(d) AppealsUpon determination by the Secretary to terminate financial assistance to any institution of higher education under this section, the institution may file an appeal with an administrative law judge before the expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the date such institution is notified of the decision to terminate financial assistance under this section. Such judge shall hold a hearing with respect to such termination of assistance before the expiration of the 45-day period beginning on the date that such appeal is filed. Such judge may extend such 45-day period upon a motion by the institution concerned. The decision of the judge with respect to such termination shall be considered to be a final agency action.


(e) Alcohol and drug abuse prevention grants(1) Program authorityThe Secretary may make grants to institutions of higher education or consortia of such institutions, and enter into contracts with such institutions, consortia, and other organizations, to develop, implement, operate, improve, and disseminate programs of prevention, and education (including treatment-referral) to reduce and eliminate the illegal use of drugs and alcohol and the violence associated with such use. Such grants or contracts may also be used for the support of a higher education center for alcohol and drug abuse prevention that will provide training, technical assistance, evaluation, dissemination, and associated services and assistance to the higher education community as determined by the Secretary and institutions of higher education.


(2) AwardsGrants and contracts shall be awarded under paragraph (1) on a competitive basis.


(3) ApplicationsAn institution of higher education, a consortium of such institutions, or another organization that desires to receive a grant or contract under paragraph (1) shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing or accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require by regulation.


(4) Additional requirements(A) ParticipationIn awarding grants and contracts under this subsection the Secretary shall make every effort to ensure—(i) the equitable participation of private and public institutions of higher education (including community and junior colleges); and

(ii) the equitable geographic participation of such institutions.


(B) ConsiderationIn awarding grants and contracts under this subsection the Secretary shall give appropriate consideration to institutions of higher education with limited enrollment.



(5) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2009 and each of the five succeeding fiscal years.



(Pub. L. 89–329, title I, § 120, as added Pub. L. 105–244, title I, § 101(a), Oct. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1596; amended Pub. L. 110–315, title I, § 107, Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3093.)

Prior ProvisionsProvisions similar to subsecs. (a) to (d) of this section were contained in section 1145g of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 105–244.

Amendments2008—Subsec. (a)(2)(B) to (D). Pub. L. 110–315, § 107(1), added subpars. (B) and (C) and redesignated former subpar. (B) as (D).
Subsec. (e)(5). Pub. L. 110–315, § 107(2), substituted “such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2009 and each of the five succeeding fiscal years” for “$5,000,000 for fiscal year 1999 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the 4 succeeding fiscal years”.
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 110–315, § 107(3), struck out subsec. (f) which related to National Recognition Awards for outstanding alcohol and drug abuse prevention programs.


