§ 3151. Establishment of one-stop delivery systems(a) In generalConsistent with an approved State plan, the local board for a local area, with the agreement of the chief elected official for the local area, shall—(1) develop and enter into the memorandum of understanding described in subsection (c) with one-stop partners;

(2) designate or certify one-stop operators under subsection (d); and

(3) conduct oversight with respect to the one-stop delivery system in the local area.


(b) One-stop partners(1) Required partners(A) Roles and responsibilities of one-stop partnersEach entity that carries out a program or activities described in subparagraph (B) in a local area shall—(i) provide access through the one-stop delivery system to such program or activities carried out by the entity, including making the career services described in section 3174(c)(2) of this title that are applicable to the program or activities available at the one-stop centers (in addition to any other appropriate locations);

(ii) use a portion of the funds available for the program and activities to maintain the one-stop delivery system, including payment of the infrastructure costs of one-stop centers in accordance with subsection (h);

(iii) enter into a local memorandum of understanding with the local board, relating to the operation of the one-stop system, that meets the requirements of subsection (c);

(iv) participate in the operation of the one-stop system consistent with the terms of the memorandum of understanding, the requirements of this subchapter, and the requirements of the Federal laws authorizing the program or activities; and

(v) provide representation on the State board to the extent provided under section 3111 of this title.


(B) Programs and activitiesThe programs and activities referred to in subparagraph (A) consist of—(i) programs authorized under this subchapter;

(ii) programs authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.);

(iii) adult education and literacy activities authorized under subchapter II;

(iv) programs authorized under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq.) (other than section 112 or part C of title I of such Act (29 U.S.C. 732, 741);

(v) activities authorized under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.);

(vi) career and technical education programs at the postsecondary level authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.);

(vii) activities authorized under chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271 et seq.);

(viii) activities authorized under chapter 41 of title 38;

(ix) employment and training activities carried out under the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9901 et seq.);

(x) employment and training activities carried out by the Department of Housing and Urban Development;

(xi) programs authorized under State unemployment compensation laws (in accordance with applicable Federal law);

(xii) programs authorized under section 17532 of title 42; and

(xiii) programs authorized under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), subject to subparagraph (C).


(C) Determination by the Governor(i) In generalAn entity that carries out a program referred to in subparagraph (B)(xiii) shall be included in the one-stop partners for the local area, as a required partner, for purposes of this Act and the other core program provisions that are not part of this Act, unless the Governor provides the notification described in clause (ii).


(ii) NotificationThe notification referred to in clause (i) is a notification that—(I) is made in writing of a determination by the Governor not to include such entity in the one-stop partners described in clause (i); and

(II) is provided to the Secretary of Labor (referred to in this part, and parts C through E, as the “Secretary”) and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.




(2) Additional partners(A) In generalWith the approval of the local board and chief elected official, in addition to the entities described in paragraph (1), other entities that carry out workforce development programs described in subparagraph (B) may be one-stop partners for the local area and carry out the responsibilities described in paragraph (1)(A).


(B) ProgramsThe programs referred to in subparagraph (A) may include—(i) employment and training programs administered by the Social Security Administration, including the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program established under section 1148 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b–19);

(ii) employment and training programs carried out by the Small Business Administration;

(iii) programs authorized under section 2015(d)(4) of title 7;

(iv) work programs authorized under section 2015(o) of title 7;

(v) programs carried out under section 112 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 732);

(vi) programs authorized under the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq.); and

(vii) other appropriate Federal, State, or local programs, including employment, education, and training programs provided by public libraries or in the private sector.




(c) Memorandum of understanding(1) DevelopmentThe local board, with the agreement of the chief elected official, shall develop and enter into a memorandum of understanding (between the local board and the one-stop partners), consistent with paragraph (2), concerning the operation of the one-stop delivery system in the local area.


(2) ContentsEach memorandum of understanding shall contain—(A) provisions describing—(i) the services to be provided through the one-stop delivery system consistent with the requirements of this section, including the manner in which the services will be coordinated and delivered through such system;

(ii) how the costs of such services and the operating costs of such system will be funded, including—(I) funding through cash and in-kind contributions (fairly evaluated), which contributions may include funding from philanthropic organizations or other private entities, or through other alternative financing options, to provide a stable and equitable funding stream for ongoing one-stop delivery system operations; and

(II) funding of the infrastructure costs of one-stop centers in accordance with subsection (h);


(iii) methods of referral of individuals between the one-stop operator and the one-stop partners for appropriate services and activities;

(iv) methods to ensure the needs of workers and youth, and individuals with barriers to employment, including individuals with disabilities, are addressed in the provision of necessary and appropriate access to services, including access to technology and materials, made available through the one-stop delivery system; and

(v) the duration of the memorandum of understanding and the procedures for amending the memorandum during the duration of the memorandum, and assurances that such memorandum shall be reviewed not less than once every 3-year period to ensure appropriate funding and delivery of services; and


(B) such other provisions, consistent with the requirements of this subchapter, as the parties to the agreement determine to be appropriate.



(d) One-stop operators(1) Local designation and certificationConsistent with paragraphs (2) and (3), the local board, with the agreement of the chief elected official, is authorized to designate or certify one-stop operators and to terminate for cause the eligibility of such operators.


(2) EligibilityTo be eligible to receive funds made available under this part to operate a one-stop center referred to in subsection (e), an entity (which may be a consortium of entities)—(A) shall be designated or certified as a one-stop operator through a competitive process; and

(B) shall be an entity (public, private, or nonprofit), or consortium of entities (including a consortium of entities that, at a minimum, includes 3 or more of the one-stop partners described in subsection (b)(1)), of demonstrated effectiveness, located in the local area, which may include—(i) an institution of higher education;

(ii) an employment service State agency established under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.), on behalf of the local office of the agency;

(iii) a community-based organization, nonprofit organization, or intermediary;

(iv) a private for-profit entity;

(v) a government agency; and

(vi) another interested organization or entity, which may include a local chamber of commerce or other business organization, or a labor organization.



(3) ExceptionElementary schools and secondary schools shall not be eligible for designation or certification as one-stop operators, except that nontraditional public secondary schools and area career and technical education schools may be eligible for such designation or certification.


(4) Additional requirementsThe State and local boards shall ensure that in carrying out activities under this subchapter, one-stop operators—(A) disclose any potential conflicts of interest arising from the relationships of the operators with particular training service providers or other service providers;

(B) do not establish practices that create disincentives to providing services to individuals with barriers to employment who may require longer-term services, such as intensive employment, training, and education services; and

(C) comply with Federal regulations, and procurement policies, relating to the calculation and use of profits.



(e) Establishment of one-stop delivery system(1) In generalThere shall be established in each local area in a State that receives an allotment under section 3172(b) of this title a one-stop delivery system, which shall—(A) provide the career services described in section 3174(c)(2) of this title;

(B) provide access to training services as described in section 3174(c)(3) of this title, including serving as the point of access to training services for participants in accordance with section 3174(c)(3)(G) of this title;

(C) provide access to the employment and training activities carried out under section 3174(d) of this title, if any;

(D) provide access to programs and activities carried out by one-stop partners described in subsection (b); and

(E) provide access to the data, information, and analysis described in section 15(a) of the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49l–2(a)) and all job search, placement, recruitment, and other labor exchange services authorized under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.).


(2) One-stop deliveryThe one-stop delivery system—(A) at a minimum, shall make each of the programs, services, and activities described in paragraph (1) accessible at not less than 1 physical center in each local area of the State; and

(B) may also make programs, services, and activities described in paragraph (1) available—(i) through a network of affiliated sites that can provide 1 or more of the programs, services, and activities to individuals; and

(ii) through a network of eligible one-stop partners—(I) in which each partner provides 1 or more of the programs, services, and activities to such individuals and is accessible at an affiliated site that consists of a physical location or an electronically or technologically linked access point; and

(II) that assures individuals that information on the availability of the career services will be available regardless of where the individuals initially enter the statewide workforce development system, including information made available through an access point described in subclause (I);



(C) may have specialized centers to address special needs, such as the needs of dislocated workers, youth, or key industry sectors or clusters; and

(D) as applicable and practicable, shall make programs, services, and activities accessible to individuals through electronic means in a manner that improves efficiency, coordination, and quality in the delivery of one-stop partner services.


(3) Colocation of Wagner-Peyser servicesConsistent with section 3(d) of the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49b(d)), and in order to improve service delivery, avoid duplication of services, and enhance coordination of services, including location of staff to ensure access to services in underserved areas, the employment service offices in each State shall be colocated with one-stop centers established under this subchapter.


(4) Use of common one-stop delivery system identifierIn addition to using any State or locally developed identifier, each one-stop delivery system shall include in the identification of products, programs, activities, services, facilities, and related property and materials, a common one-stop delivery system identifier. The identifier shall be developed by the Secretary, in consultation with heads of other appropriate departments and agencies, and representatives of State boards and local boards and of other stakeholders in the one-stop delivery system, not later than the beginning of the second full program year after July 22, 2014. Such common identifier may consist of a logo, phrase, or other identifier that informs users of the one-stop delivery system that such products, programs, activities, services, facilities, property, or materials are being provided through such system. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prohibit one-stop partners, States, or local areas from having additional identifiers.



(f) Application to certain vocational rehabilitation programs(1) LimitationNothing in this section shall be construed to apply to part C of title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 741).


(2) Client assistanceNothing in this Act shall be construed to require that any entity carrying out a client assistance program authorized under section 112 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 732)—(A) be included as a mandatory one-stop partner under subsection (b)(1); or

(B) if the entity is included as an additional one-stop partner under subsection (b)(2)—(i) violate the requirement of section 112(c)(1)(A) of that Act (29 U.S.C. 732(c)(1)(A)) that the entity be independent of any agency that provides treatment, services, or rehabilitation to individuals under that Act; or

(ii) carry out any activity not authorized under section 112 of that Act (including appropriate Federal regulations).




(g) Certification and continuous improvement of one-stop centers(1) In generalIn order to be eligible to receive infrastructure funding described in subsection (h), the State board, in consultation with chief elected officials and local boards, shall establish objective criteria and procedures for use by local boards in assessing at least once every 3 years the effectiveness, physical and programmatic accessibility in accordance with section 3248 of this title, if applicable, and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.), and continuous improvement of one-stop centers and the one-stop delivery system, consistent with the requirements of section 3111(d)(6) of this title.


(2) CriteriaThe criteria and procedures developed under this subsection shall include standards relating to service coordination achieved by the one-stop delivery system with respect to the programs administered by the one-stop partners at the one-stop centers. Such criteria and procedures shall—(A) be developed in a manner that is consistent with the guidelines, guidance, and policies provided by the Governor and by the State board, in consultation with the chief elected officials and local boards, for such partners’ participation under subsections (h)(1) and (i); and

(B) include such factors relating to the effectiveness, accessibility, and improvement of the one-stop delivery system as the State board determines to be appropriate, including at a minimum how well the one-stop center—(i) supports the achievement of the negotiated local levels of performance for the indicators of performance described in section 3141(b)(2) of this title for the local area;

(ii) integrates available services; and

(iii) meets the workforce development and employment needs of local employers and participants.



(3) Local criteriaConsistent with the criteria developed under paragraph (1) by the State, a local board in the State may develop additional criteria (or higher levels of service coordination than required for the State-developed criteria) relating to service coordination achieved by the one-stop delivery system, for purposes of assessments described in paragraph (1), in order to respond to labor market, economic, and demographic, conditions and trends in the local area.


(4) Effect of certificationOne-stop centers certified under this subsection shall be eligible to receive the infrastructure funding described in subsection (h).


(5) Review and updateThe criteria and procedures established under this subsection shall be reviewed and updated by the State board or the local board, as the case may be, as part of the biennial process for review and modification of State and local plans described in sections 3112(c)(2) and 3123(a) of this title.



(h) Funding of one-stop infrastructure(1) In general(A) Options for infrastructure funding(i) Local optionsThe local board, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners described in subsection (b)(1) in a local area may fund the costs of infrastructure of one-stop centers in the local area through—(I) methods agreed on by the local board, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners (and described in the memorandum of understanding described in subsection (c)); or

(II) if no consensus agreement on methods is reached under subclause (I), the State infrastructure funding mechanism described in paragraph (2).


(ii) Failure to reach consensus agreement on funding methodsBeginning July 1, 2016, if the local board, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners described in subsection (b)(1) in a local area fail to reach consensus agreement on methods of sufficiently funding the costs of infrastructure of one-stop centers for a program year, the State infrastructure funding mechanism described in paragraph (2) shall be applicable to such local area for that program year and for each subsequent program year for which those entities and individuals fail to reach such agreement.



(B) Guidance for infrastructure fundingIn addition to carrying out the requirements relating to the State infrastructure funding mechanism described in paragraph (2), the Governor, after consultation with chief elected officials, local boards, and the State board, and consistent with the guidance and policies provided by the State board under subparagraphs (B) and (C)(i) of section 3111(d)(7) of this title, shall provide, for the use of local areas under subparagraph (A)(i)(I)—(i) guidelines for State-administered one-stop partner programs, for determining such programs’ contributions to a one-stop delivery system, based on such programs’ proportionate use of such system consistent with chapter II of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling), including determining funding for the costs of infrastructure, which contributions shall be negotiated pursuant to the memorandum of understanding under subsection (c); and

(ii) guidance to assist local boards, chief elected officials, and one-stop partners in local areas in determining equitable and stable methods of funding the costs of infrastructure of one-stop centers in such areas.



(2) State one-stop infrastructure funding(A) DefinitionIn this paragraph, the term “covered portion”, used with respect to funding for a fiscal year for a program described in subsection (b)(1), means a portion determined under subparagraph (C) of the Federal funds provided to a State (including local areas within the State) under the Federal law authorizing that program described in subsection (b)(1) for the fiscal year (taking into account the availability of funding for purposes related to infrastructure from philanthropic organizations, private entities, or other alternative financing options).


(B) Partner contributionsSubject to subparagraph (D), for local areas in a State that are not covered by paragraph (1)(A)(i)(I), the covered portions of funding for a fiscal year shall be provided to the Governor from the programs described in subsection (b)(1), to assist in paying the costs of infrastructure of one-stop centers in those local areas of the State not adequately funded under the option described in paragraph (1)(A)(i)(I).


(C) Determination of Governor(i) In generalSubject to clause (ii) and subparagraph (D), the Governor, after consultation with chief elected officials, local boards, and the State board, shall determine the portion of funds to be provided under subparagraph (B) by each one-stop partner from each program described in subparagraph (B). In making such determination for the purpose of determining funding contributions, for funding pursuant to clause (i)(II) or (ii) of paragraph (1)(A) by each partner, the Governor shall calculate amounts for the proportionate use of the one-stop centers in the State, consistent with chapter II of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling), taking into account the costs of administration of the one-stop delivery system for purposes not related to one-stop centers, for each partner. The Governor shall exclude from such determination of funds the amounts for proportionate use of one-stop centers attributable to the programs of one-stop partners for those local areas of the State where the costs of infrastructure of one-stop centers are funded under the option described in paragraph (1)(A)(i)(I). The Governor shall also take into account the statutory requirements for each partner program and the partner program’s ability to fulfill such requirements.


(ii) Special ruleIn a State in which the State constitution or a State statute places policymaking authority that is independent of the authority of the Governor in an entity or official with respect to the funds provided for adult education and literacy activities authorized under subchapter II, postsecondary career and technical education activities authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.), or vocational rehabilitation services offered under a provision covered by section 3102(13)(D) of this title, the determination described in clause (i) with respect to the programs authorized under that subchapter, Act, or provision shall be made by the chief officer of the entity, or the official, with such authority in consultation with the Governor.



(D) Limitations(i) Provision from administrative funds(I) In generalSubject to subclause (II), the funds provided under this paragraph by each one-stop partner shall be provided only from funds available for the costs of administration under the program administered by such partner, and shall be subject to the program’s limitations with respect to the portion of funds under such program that may be used for administration.


(II) ExceptionsNothing in this clause shall be construed to apply to the programs carried out under this subchapter, or under title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.).



(ii) Cap on required contributionsFor local areas in a State that are not covered by paragraph (1)(A)(i)(I), the following rules shall apply:(I) Wia formula programs and employment serviceThe portion of funds required to be contributed under this paragraph from a program authorized under subpart 2 or 3, or the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.) shall not exceed 3 percent of the amount of Federal funds provided to carry out that program in the State for a fiscal year.


(II) Other one-stop partnersThe portion of funds required to be contributed under this paragraph from a program described in subsection (b)(1) other than the programs described in subclause (I) shall not exceed 1.5 percent of the amount of Federal funds provided to carry out that program in the State for a fiscal year.


(III) Vocational rehabilitationNotwithstanding subclauses (I) and (II), an entity administering a program described in subsection (b)(1)(B)(iv) shall not be required to provide from that program, under this paragraph, a portion that exceeds—(aa) 0.75 percent of the amount of Federal funds provided to carry out such program in the State for the second full program year that begins after July 22, 2014;

(bb) 1.0 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for the third full program year that begins after such date;

(cc) 1.25 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for the fourth full program year that begins after such date; and

(dd) 1.5 percent of the amount provided to carry out such program in the State for the fifth and each succeeding full program year that begins after such date.



(iii) Federal direct spending programsFor local areas in a State that are not covered by paragraph (1)(A)(i)(I), an entity administering a program funded with direct spending as defined in section 900(c)(8) of title 2, as in effect on February 15, 2014 11 So in original. Probably should be “2014,”. shall not be required to provide, for purposes of this paragraph, an amount in excess of the amount determined under subparagraph (C)(i) to be equivalent to the cost of the proportionate use of the one-stop centers for the one-stop partner for such program in the State.


(iv) Native American programsOne-stop partners for Native American programs established under section 3221 of this title shall not be subject to the provisions of this subsection (other than this clause) or subsection (i). For purposes of subsection (c)(2)(A)(ii)(II), the method for determining the appropriate portion of funds to be provided by such partners to pay for the costs of infrastructure of a one-stop center shall be determined as part of the development of the memorandum of understanding under subsection (c) for the one-stop center and shall be stated in the memorandum.



(E) Appeal by one-stop partnersThe Governor shall establish a process, described under section 3112(b)(2)(D)(i)(IV) of this title, for a one-stop partner administering a program described in subsection (b)(1) to appeal a determination regarding the portion of funds to be provided under this paragraph. Such a determination may be appealed under the process on the basis that such determination is inconsistent with the requirements of this paragraph. Such process shall ensure prompt resolution of the appeal in order to ensure the funds are distributed in a timely manner, consistent with the requirements of section 3242(e) of this title.



(3) Allocation by Governor(A) In generalFrom the funds provided under paragraph (1), the Governor shall allocate the funds to local areas described in subparagraph (B) in accordance with the formula established under subparagraph (B) for the purposes of assisting in paying the costs of infrastructure of one-stop centers.


(B) Allocation formulaThe State board shall develop a formula to be used by the Governor to allocate the funds provided under paragraph (1) to local areas not funding costs of infrastructure under the option described in paragraph (1)(A)(i)(I). The formula shall be based on factors including the number of one-stop centers in a local area, the population served by such centers, the services provided by such centers, and other factors relating to the performance of such centers that the State board determines are appropriate.



(4) Costs of infrastructureIn this subsection, the term “costs of infrastructure”, used with respect to a one-stop center, means the nonpersonnel costs that are necessary for the general operation of the one-stop center, including the rental costs of the facilities, the costs of utilities and maintenance, equipment (including assessment-related products and assistive technology for individuals with disabilities), and technology to facilitate access to the one-stop center, including the center’s planning and outreach activities.



(i) Other funds(1) In generalSubject to the memorandum of understanding described in subsection (c) for the one-stop delivery system involved, in addition to the funds provided to carry out subsection (h), a portion of funds made available under Federal law authorizing the programs described in subsection (b) and administered by one-stop partners, or the noncash resources available under such programs, shall be used to pay the additional costs relating to the operation of the one-stop delivery system that are not paid from the funds provided under subsection (h), as determined in accordance with paragraph (3), to the extent not inconsistent with the Federal law involved. Such costs shall include the costs of the provision of career services described in section 3174(c)(2) of this title applicable to each program and may include common costs that are not paid from the funds provided under subsection (h).


(2) Shared servicesThe costs described under paragraph (1) may include costs of services that are authorized for and may be commonly provided through the one-stop partner programs to any individual, such as initial intake, assessment of needs, appraisal of basic skills, identification of appropriate services to meet such needs, referrals to other one-stop partners, and other similar services.


(3) Determination and guidanceThe method for determining the appropriate portion of funds and noncash resources to be provided by the one-stop partner for each program under paragraph (1) for a one-stop center shall be determined as part of the development of the memorandum of understanding under subsection (c) for the one-stop center and shall be stated in the memorandum. The State board shall provide guidance to facilitate the determination, for purposes of the memorandum of understanding, of an appropriate allocation of the funds and noncash resources in local areas, consistent with the requirements of section 3111(d)(6)(C) of this title.



(Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 121, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1481.)


References in TextThe Wagner-Peyser Act, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1)(B)(ii), (d)(2)(B)(ii), (e)(1)(E), and (h)(2)(D)(ii)(I), is act June 6, 1933, ch. 49, 48 Stat. 113, which is classified generally to chapter 4B (§ 49 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 49 of this title and Tables.
The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1)(B)(iv) and (f), is Pub. L. 93–112, Sept. 26, 1973, 87 Stat. 355, which is classified generally to chapter 16 (§ 701 et seq.) of this title. Title I of the Act is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 720 et seq.) of chapter 16 of this title. Part C of title I of the Act is classified generally to part C (§ 741) of subchapter I of chapter 16 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 701 of this title and Tables.
The Older Americans Act of 1965, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1)(B)(v) and (h)(2)(D)(i)(II), is Pub. L. 89–73, July 14, 1965, 79 Stat. 218, which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 3001 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. Title V of the Act, known as the Community Service Senior Opportunities Act, is classified generally to subchapter IX (§ 3056 et seq.) of chapter 35 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3001 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1)(B)(vi) and (h)(2)(C)(ii), is Pub. L. 88–210, Dec. 18, 1963, 77 Stat. 403, as amended generally by Pub. L. 109–270, § 1(b), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 683, which is classified generally to chapter 44 (§ 2301 et seq.) of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2301 of Title 20 and Tables.
The Trade Act of 1974, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(B)(vii), is Pub. L. 93–618, Jan. 3, 1975, 88 Stat. 1978. Chapter 2 of title II of the Act is classified generally to part 2 (§ 2271 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 12 of Title 19, Customs Duties. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 2101 of Title 19 and Tables.
The Community Services Block Grant Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(B)(ix), is subtitle B (§ 671 et seq.) of title VI of Pub. L. 97–35, Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 511, which is classified generally to chapter 106 (§ 9901 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short title note set out under section 9901 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(B)(xiii), is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620. Part A of title IV of the Act is classified generally to part A (§ 601 et seq.) of subchapter IV of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1305 of Title 42 and Tables.
This Act, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1)(C)(i) and (f)(2), is Pub. L. 113–128, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1425, known as the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, which enacted this chapter, repealed chapter 30 (§ 2801 et seq.) of this title and chapter 73 (§ 9201 et seq.) of Title 20, Education, and made amendments to numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3101 of this title and Tables.
The National and Community Service Act of 1990, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(B)(vi), is Pub. L. 101–610, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3127, which is classified principally to chapter 129 (§ 12501 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 12501 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, referred to in subsec. (g)(1), is Pub. L. 101–336, July 26, 1990, 104 Stat. 327, which is classified principally to chapter 126 (§ 12101 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 12101 of Title 42 and Tables.

Effective DateSection effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 [probably July 1, 2015], see section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128, set out as a note under section 3101 of this title.


