§ 6542. Transfer of broadcasting related funds, property, and personnel(a) Transfer and allocation of property and appropriations(1) In generalThe assets, liabilities (including contingent liabilities arising from suits continued with a substitution or addition of parties under section 6543(d) of this title), contracts, property, records, and unexpended balance of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, held, used, arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection with the functions and offices of USIA transferred to the Broadcasting Board of Governors by this part shall be transferred to the Broadcasting Board of Governors for appropriate allocation.


(2) Additional transfersIn addition to the transfers made under paragraph (1), there shall be transferred to the Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors the assets, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balance of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds, as determined by the Secretary, in concurrence with the Broadcasting Board of Governors, to support the functions transferred by this part.



(b) Transfer of personnelNotwithstanding any other provision of law—(1) except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, all personnel and positions of USIA employed or maintained to carry out the functions transferred by this part to the Broadcasting Board of Governors shall be transferred to the Broadcasting Board of Governors at the same grade or class and the same rate of basic pay or basic salary rate and with the same tenure held immediately preceding transfer; and

(2) the personnel and positions of USIA, as determined by the Secretary of State, with the concurrence of the Broadcasting Board of Governors and the Director of USIA, to support the functions transferred by this part shall be transferred to the Broadcasting Board of Governors, including the International Broadcasting Bureau, at the same grade or class and the same rate of basic pay or basic salary rate and with the same tenure held immediately preceding transfer.


(c) Transfer and allocation of property, appropriations, and personnel associated with WorldnetUSIA personnel responsible for carrying out interactive dialogs with foreign media and other similar overseas public diplomacy programs using the Worldnet television broadcasting system, and funds associated with such personnel, shall be transferred to the Department of State in accordance with the provisions of subchapter VI of this chapter.


(d) Incidental transfersThe Director of the Office of Management and Budget, when requested by the Broadcasting Board of Governors, is authorized to make such incidental dispositions of personnel, assets, liabilities, grants, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds held, used, arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection with functions and offices transferred from USIA, as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.


(Pub. L. 105–277, div. G, subdiv. A, title XIII, § 1326, Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–782.)


References in TextThis part, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the original “this chapter”, meaning chapter 3 (§§ 1321–1328) of title XIII of subdiv. A of div. G of Pub. L. 105–277, Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–777. For complete classification of chapter 3 to the Code, see Tables.


