§ 6381f. Applications(a) SubmissionTo be eligible to receive a subgrant under this subpart, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the State educational agency in such form and containing or accompanied by such information as the State educational agency shall require.


(b) Required documentationEach application shall include documentation, satisfactory to the State educational agency, that the eligible entity has the qualified personnel needed—(1) to develop, administer, and implement an Even Start program under this subpart; and

(2) to provide access to the special training necessary to prepare staff for the program, which may be offered by an eligible organization.


(c) Plan(1) In generalThe application shall also include a plan of operation and continuous improvement for the program, that includes—(A) a description of the program objectives, strategies to meet those objectives, and how those strategies and objectives are consistent with the program indicators established by the State;

(B) a description of the activities and services that will be provided under the program, including a description of how the program will incorporate the program elements required by section 6381d of this title;

(C) a description of the population to be served and an estimate of the number of participants to be served;

(D) as appropriate, a description of the applicant’s collaborative efforts with institutions of higher education, community-based organizations, the State educational agency, private elementary schools, or other eligible organizations in carrying out the program for which assistance is sought;

(E) a statement of the methods that will be used—(i) to ensure that the programs will serve families most in need of the activities and services provided by this subpart;

(ii) to provide services under this subpart to individuals with special needs, such as individuals with limited English proficiency and individuals with disabilities; and

(iii) to encourage participants to remain in the program for a time sufficient to meet the program’s purpose;


(F) a description of how the plan is integrated with other programs under this chapter or other Acts, as appropriate; and

(G) a description of how the plan provides for rigorous and objective evaluation of progress toward the program objectives described in subparagraph (A) and for continuing use of evaluation data for program improvement.


(2) Duration of the planEach plan submitted under paragraph (1) shall—(A) remain in effect for the duration of the eligible entity’s participation under this subpart; and

(B) be periodically reviewed and revised by the eligible entity as necessary.



(d) Consolidated applicationThe plan described in subsection (c)(1) of this section may be submitted as part of a consolidated application under section 7845 of this title.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1237, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1563.)
