§ 640d–17. Actions for accounting, fair value of grazing, and claims for damages to land(a) Authorization to commence and defend actions in District CourtEither tribe, acting through the chairman of its tribal council, for and on behalf of the tribe, including all villages, clans, and individual members thereof, is hereby authorized to commence or defend in the District Court an action or actions against the other tribe for the following purposes if such action or actions are not settled pursuant to section 640d–2 or 640d–3 of this title:(1) for an accounting of all sums collected by either tribe since the 17th day of September 1957 as trader license fees or commissions, lease proceeds, or other similar charges for the doing of business or the use of lands within the joint use area, and judgment for one-half of all sums so collected, and not paid to the other tribe, together with interest at the rate of 6 per centum per annum compounded annually;

(2) for the determination and recovery of the fair value of the grazing and agricultural use by either tribe and its individual members since the 28th day of September 1962 of the undivided one-half interest of the other tribe in the lands within the joint use area, together with interest at the rate of 6 per centum per annum compounded annually, notwithstanding the fact that the tribes are tenants in common of such lands; and

(3) for the adjudication of any claims that either tribe may have against the other for damages to the lands to which title was quieted as aforesaid by the United States District Court for the District of Arizona in such tribes, share and share alike, subject to the trust title of the United States, without interest, notwithstanding the fact that such tribes are tenants in common of such lands: Provided, That the United States may be joined as a party to such an action and, in such case, the provisions of sections 1346(a)(2) and 1505 of title 28 shall not be applicable to such action.


(b) DefensesNeither laches nor the statute of limitations shall constitute a defense to any action authorized by this subchapter for existing claims if commenced within two years from December 22, 1974, or one hundred and eighty days from the date of issuance of an order of the District Court pursuant to section 640d–2 or 640d–3 of this title, whichever is later.


(c) Further original, ancillary or supplementary actions to insure quiet enjoymentEither tribe may institute such further original, ancillary, or supplementary actions against the other tribe as may be necessary or desirable to insure the quiet and peaceful enjoyment of the reservation lands of the tribes by the tribes and the members thereof, and to fully accomplish all objects and purposes of this subchapter. Such actions may be commenced in the District Court by either tribe against the other, acting through the chairman of its tribal council, for and on behalf of the tribe, including all villages, clans, and individual members thereof.


(d) United States as party; judgments as claims against the United StatesExcept as provided in clause (3) of subsection (a) of this section, the United States shall not be an indispensable party to any action or actions commenced pursuant to this section. Any judgment or judgments by the District Court in such action or actions shall not be regarded as a claim or claims against the United States.


(e) RemediesAll applicable provisional and final remedies and special proceedings provided for by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and all other remedies and processes available for the enforcement and collection of judgments in the district courts of the United States may be used in the enforcement and collection of judgments obtained pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.


(Pub. L. 93–531, § 18, Dec. 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 1721.)
