§ 7441. Improvement of educational opportunities for Indian children(a) Purpose(1) In generalIt is the purpose of this section to support projects to develop, test, and demonstrate the effectiveness of services and programs to improve educational opportunities and achievement of Indian children.


(2) CoordinationThe Secretary shall take the necessary actions to achieve the coordination of activities assisted under this subpart with—(A) other programs funded under this chapter; and

(B) other Federal programs operated for the benefit of American Indian and Alaska Native children.



(b) Eligible entitiesIn this section, the term “eligible entity” means a State educational agency, local educational agency, Indian tribe, Indian organization, federally supported elementary school or secondary school for Indian students, Indian institution (including an Indian institution of higher education), or a consortium of such entities.


(c) Grants authorized(1) In generalThe Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities to enable such entities to carry out activities that meet the purpose of this section, including—(A) innovative programs related to the educational needs of educationally disadvantaged children;

(B) educational services that are not available to such children in sufficient quantity or quality, including remedial instruction, to raise the achievement of Indian children in one or more of the core academic subjects of English, mathematics, science, foreign languages, art, history, and geography;

(C) bilingual and bicultural programs and projects;

(D) special health and nutrition services, and other related activities, that address the special health, social, and psychological problems of Indian children;

(E) special compensatory and other programs and projects designed to assist and encourage Indian children to enter, remain in, or reenter school, and to increase the rate of high school graduation for Indian children;

(F) comprehensive guidance, counseling, and testing services;

(G) early childhood and kindergarten programs, including family-based preschool programs that emphasize school readiness and parental skills, and the provision of services to Indian children with disabilities;

(H) partnership projects between local educational agencies and institutions of higher education that allow secondary school students to enroll in courses at the postsecondary level to aid such students in the transition from secondary to postsecondary education;

(I) partnership projects between schools and local businesses for career preparation programs designed to provide Indian youth with the knowledge and skills such youth need to make an effective transition from school to a high-skill, high-wage career;

(J) programs designed to encourage and assist Indian students to work toward, and gain entrance into, an institution of higher education;

(K) family literacy services;

(L) activities that recognize and support the unique cultural and educational needs of Indian children, and incorporate appropriately qualified tribal elders and seniors; or

(M) other services that meet the purpose described in this section.


(2) Professional developmentProfessional development of teaching professionals and paraprofessionals may be a part of any program assisted under this section.



(d) Grant requirements and applications(1) Grant requirements(A) In generalThe Secretary may make multiyear grants under subsection (c) of this section for the planning, development, pilot operation, or demonstration of any activity described in subsection (c) of this section for a period not to exceed 5 years.


(B) PriorityIn making multiyear grants described in this paragraph, the Secretary shall give priority to entities submitting applications that present a plan for combining two or more of the activities described in subsection (c) of this section over a period of more than 1 year.


(C) ProgressThe Secretary shall make a grant payment for a grant described in this paragraph to an eligible entity after the initial year of the multiyear grant only if the Secretary determines that the eligible entity has made substantial progress in carrying out the activities assisted under the grant in accordance with the application submitted under paragraph (3) and any subsequent modifications to such application.



(2) Dissemination grants(A) In generalIn addition to awarding the multiyear grants described in paragraph (1), the Secretary may award grants under subsection (c) of this section to eligible entities for the dissemination of exemplary materials or programs assisted under this section.


(B) DeterminationThe Secretary may award a dissemination grant described in this paragraph if, prior to awarding the grant, the Secretary determines that the material or program to be disseminated—(i) has been adequately reviewed;

(ii) has demonstrated educational merit; and

(iii) can be replicated.



(3) Application(A) In generalAny eligible entity that desires to receive a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(B) ContentsEach application submitted to the Secretary under subparagraph (A), other than an application for a dissemination grant under paragraph (2), shall contain—(i) a description of how parents of Indian children and representatives of Indian tribes have been, and will be, involved in developing and implementing the activities for which assistance is sought;

(ii) assurances that the applicant will participate, at the request of the Secretary, in any national evaluation of activities assisted under this section;

(iii) information demonstrating that the proposed program for the activities is a scientifically based research program, where applicable, which may include a program that has been modified to be culturally appropriate for students who will be served;

(iv) a description of how the applicant will incorporate the proposed activities into the ongoing school program involved once the grant period is over; and

(v) such other assurances and information as the Secretary may reasonably require.




(e) Administrative costsNot more than 5 percent of the funds provided to a grantee under this subpart for any fiscal year may be used for administrative purposes.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title VII, § 7121, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title VII, § 701, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1919.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 7121 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 7431 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


