§ 2214a. Definitions
 In this subpart:(1) AdministratorThe term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Agency.


(2) AgencyThe term “Agency” means the United States Agency for International Development.


(3) Appropriate congressional committeesThe term “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.


(4) Business development servicesThe term “business development services” means support for the growth of microenterprises through training, technical assistance, marketing assistance, improved production technologies, and other related services.


(5) DirectorThe term “Director” means the Director of the office.


(6) Implementing partner organizationThe term “implementing partner organization” means an entity eligible to receive assistance under this subpart which is—(A) a United States or an indigenous private voluntary organization;

(B) a United States or an indigenous credit union;

(C) a United States or an indigenous cooperative organization;

(D) an indigenous governmental or nongovernmental organization;

(E) a microenterprise institution;

(F) a microfinance institution; or

(G) a practitioner institution.


(7) Microenterprise institutionThe term “microenterprise institution” means a not-for-profit entity that provides services, including microfinance, training, or business development services, for microenterprise clients in foreign countries.


(8) Microfinance institutionThe term “microfinance institution” means a not-for-profit entity or a regulated financial intermediary that directly provides, or works to expand, the availability of credit, savings, and other financial services to microfinance and microenterprise clients in foreign countries.


(9) Microfinance networkThe term “microfinance network” means an affiliated group of practitioner institutions that provides services to its members, including financing, technical assistance, and accreditation, for the purpose of promoting the financial sustainability and societal impact of microenterprise assistance.


(10) OfficeThe term “office” means the office of microenterprise development established under section 2211a(b)(1) of this title.


(11) Practitioner institutionThe term “practitioner institution” means a not-for-profit entity or a regulated financial intermediary, including a microfinance network, that provides services, including microfinance, training, or business development services, for microfinance and microenterprise clients, or provides assistance to microenterprise institutions in foreign countries.


(12) Private voluntary organizationThe term “private voluntary organization” means a not-for-profit entity that—(A) engages in and supports activities of an economic or social development or humanitarian nature for citizens in foreign countries; and

(B) is incorporated as such under the laws of the United States, including any of its states, territories or the District of Columbia, or of a foreign country.


(13) United States-supported microfinance institutionThe term “United States-supported microfinance institution” means a financial intermediary that has received funds made available under subchapter I of this chapter for fiscal year 1980 or any subsequent fiscal year.


(14) Very poorThe term “very poor” means those individuals—(A) living in the bottom 50 percent below the poverty line established by the national government of the country in which those individuals live; or

(B) living on less than the equivalent of $1 per day (as calculated using the purchasing power parity (PPP) exchange rate method).


(Pub. L. 87–195, pt. I, § 259, as added Pub. L. 108–484, § 6, Dec. 23, 2004, 118 Stat. 3929.)

References to Subchapter I Deemed To Include Certain Parts of Subchapter IIReferences to subchapter I of this chapter are deemed to include parts IV (§ 2346 et seq.), VI (§ 2348 et seq.), and VIII (§ 2349aa et seq.) of subchapter II of this chapter, and references to subchapter II are deemed to exclude such parts. See section 202(b) of Pub. L. 92–226, set out as a note under section 2346 of this title, and sections 2348c and 2349aa–5 of this title.


Change of Name
Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


