§ 6362. Formula grants to State educational agencies(a) In general(1) Authorization to make grantsIn the case of each State educational agency that in accordance with section 6363 of this title submits to the Secretary an application for a 6-year period, the Secretary, from amounts appropriated under section 6302(b)(1) of this title and subject to the application’s approval, shall make a grant to the State educational agency for the uses specified in subsections (c) and (d) of this section. For each fiscal year, the funds provided under the grant shall equal the allotment determined for the State educational agency under subsection (b) of this section.


(2) Duration of grantsSubject to subsection (e)(3) of this section, a grant under this section shall be awarded for a period of not more than 6 years.



(b) Determination of amount of allotments(1) Reservations from appropriationsFrom the total amount made available to carry out this subpart for a fiscal year, the Secretary—(A) shall reserve one-half of 1 percent for allotments for the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, to be distributed among these outlying areas on the basis of their relative need, as determined by the Secretary in accordance with the purposes of this subpart;

(B) shall reserve one-half of 1 percent for the Secretary of the Interior for programs under this subpart in schools operated or funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs;

(C) may reserve not more than 2½ percent or $25,000,000, whichever is less, to carry out section 6365 of this title (relating to external evaluation) and section 6366 of this title (relating to national activities);

(D) shall reserve $5,000,000 to carry out sections 6367 and 6374 of this title (relating to information dissemination); and

(E) for any fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 2004, for which the amount appropriated to carry out this subpart exceeds the amount appropriated for fiscal year 2003, shall reserve, to carry out section 6364 of this title, the lesser of—(i) $90,000,000; or

(ii) 10 percent of such excess amount.



(2) State allotmentsIn accordance with paragraph (3), the Secretary shall allot among each of the States the total amount made available to carry out this subpart for any fiscal year and not reserved under paragraph (1).


(3) Determination of State allotment amounts(A) In generalSubject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall allot the amount made available under paragraph (2) for a fiscal year among the States in proportion to the number of children, aged 5 to 17, who reside within the State and are from families with incomes below the poverty line for the most recent fiscal year for which satisfactory data are available, compared to the number of such individuals who reside in all such States for that fiscal year.


(B) Exceptions(i) Minimum grant amountSubject to clause (ii), no State receiving an allotment under subparagraph (A) may receive less than one-fourth of 1 percent of the total amount allotted under such subparagraph.


(ii) Puerto RicoThe percentage of the amount allotted under subparagraph (A) that is allotted to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for a fiscal year may not exceed the percentage that was received by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico of the funds allocated to all States under subpart 2 of part A of this subchapter for the preceding fiscal year.




(4) Distribution of subgrantsThe Secretary may make a grant to a State educational agency only if the State educational agency agrees to expend at least 80 percent of the amount of the funds provided under the grant for the purpose of making, in accordance with subsection (c) of this section, competitive subgrants to eligible local educational agencies.


(5) ReallotmentIf a State educational agency described in paragraph (2) does not apply for an allotment under this section for any fiscal year, or if the State educational agency’s application is not approved, the Secretary shall reallot such amount to the remaining State educational agencies in accordance with paragraph (3).


(6) Definition of StateFor purposes of this subsection, the term “State” means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.



(c) Subgrants to local educational agencies(1) Authorization to make subgrantsIn accordance with paragraph (2), a State educational agency that receives a grant under this section shall make competitive subgrants to eligible local educational agencies.


(2) Allocation(A) Minimum subgrant amountIn making subgrants under paragraph (1), a State educational agency shall allocate to each eligible local educational agency that receives such a subgrant, at a minimum, an amount that bears the same relation to the funds made available under subsection (b)(4) of this section as the amount the eligible local educational agency received under part A of this subchapter for the preceding fiscal year bears to the amount all the local educational agencies in the State received under part A of this subchapter for the preceding fiscal year.


(B) PriorityIn making subgrants under paragraph (1), a State educational agency shall give priority to eligible local educational agencies in which at least—(i) 15 percent of the children served by the eligible local educational agency are from families with incomes below the poverty line; or

(ii) 6,500 children served by the eligible local educational agency are from families with incomes below the poverty line.



(3) NoticeA State educational agency receiving a grant under this section shall provide notice to all eligible local educational agencies in the State of the availability of competitive subgrants under this subsection and of the requirements for applying for the subgrants.


(4) Local applicationTo be eligible to receive a subgrant under this subsection, an eligible local educational agency shall submit an application to the State educational agency at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the State educational agency may reasonably require.


(5) State requirementIn distributing subgrant funds to eligible local educational agencies under this subsection, a State educational agency shall—(A) provide funds in sufficient size and scope to enable the eligible local educational agencies to improve reading instruction; and

(B) provide the funds in amounts related to the number or percentage of students in kindergarten through grade 3 who are reading below grade level.


(6) Limitation to certain schoolsIn distributing subgrant funds under this subsection, an eligible local educational agency shall provide funds only to schools that both—(A) are among the schools served by that eligible local educational agency with the highest percentages or numbers of students in kindergarten through grade 3 reading below grade level, based on the most currently available data; and

(B)(i) are identified for school improvement under section 6316(b) of this title; or

(ii) have the highest percentages or numbers of children counted under section 6333(c) of this title.



(7) Local uses of funds(A) Required usesSubject to paragraph (8), an eligible local educational agency that receives a subgrant under this subsection shall use the funds provided under the subgrant to carry out the following activities:(i) Selecting and administering screening, diagnostic, and classroom-based instructional reading assessments.

(ii) Selecting and implementing a learning system or program of reading instruction based on scientifically based reading research that—(I) includes the essential components of reading instruction; and

(II) provides such instruction to the children in kindergarten through grade 3 in the schools served by the eligible local educational agency, including children who—(aa) may have reading difficulties;

(bb) are at risk of being referred to special education based on these difficulties;

(cc) have been evaluated under section 614 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1414] but, in accordance with section 614(b)(5) of that Act [20 U.S.C. 1414(b)(5)], have not been identified as being a child with a disability (as defined in section 602 of that Act [20 U.S.C. 1401]);

(dd) are being served under such Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.] primarily due to being identified as being a child with a specific learning disability (as defined in section 602 of that Act [20 U.S.C. 1401]) related to reading;

(ee) are deficient in the essential components of reading skills, as listed in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of section 6368(3) of this title; or

(ff) are identified as having limited English proficiency.



(iii) Procuring and implementing instructional materials, including education technology such as software and other digital curricula, that are based on scientifically based reading research.

(iv) Providing professional development for teachers of kindergarten through grade 3, and special education teachers of kindergarten through grade 12, that—(I) will prepare these teachers in all of the essential components of reading instruction;

(II) shall include—(aa) information on instructional materials, programs, strategies, and approaches based on scientifically based reading research, including early intervention, classroom reading materials, and remedial programs and approaches; and

(bb) instruction in the use of screening, diagnostic, and classroom-based instructional reading assessments and other procedures that effectively identify students who may be at risk for reading failure or who are having difficulty reading;


(III) shall be provided by eligible professional development providers; and

(IV) will assist teachers in becoming highly qualified in reading instruction in accordance with the requirements of section 6319 of this title.


(v) Collecting and summarizing data—(I) to document the effectiveness of activities carried out under this subpart in individual schools and in the local educational agency as a whole; and

(II) to stimulate and accelerate improvement by identifying the schools that produce significant gains in reading achievement.


(vi) Reporting data for all students and categories of students described in section 6311(b)(2)(C)(v)(II) of this title.

(vii) Promoting reading and library programs that provide access to engaging reading material, including coordination with programs funded through grants received under subpart 4 of this part, where applicable.


(B) Additional usesSubject to paragraph (8), an eligible local educational agency that receives a subgrant under this subsection may use the funds provided under the subgrant to carry out the following activities:(i) Humanities-based family literacy programs (which may be referred to as “Prime Time Family Reading Time”) that bond families around the acts of reading and using public libraries.

(ii) Providing training in the essential components of reading instruction to a parent or other individual who volunteers to be a student’s reading tutor, to enable such parent or individual to support instructional practices that are based on scientifically based reading research and are being used by the student’s teacher.

(iii) Assisting parents, through the use of materials and reading programs, strategies, and approaches (including family literacy services) that are based on scientifically based reading research, to encourage reading and support their child’s reading development.



(8) Local planning and administrationAn eligible local educational agency that receives a subgrant under this subsection may use not more than 3.5 percent of the funds provided under the subgrant for planning and administration.



(d) State uses of funds(1) In generalA State educational agency that receives a grant under this section may expend not more than a total of 20 percent of the grant funds to carry out the activities described in paragraphs (3), (4), and (5).


(2) PriorityA State educational agency shall give priority to carrying out the activities described in paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) for schools described in subsection (c)(6) of this section.


(3) Professional inservice and preservice development and reviewA State educational agency may expend not more than 65 percent of the amount of the funds made available under paragraph (1)—(A) to develop and implement a program of professional development for teachers, including special education teachers, of kindergarten through grade 3 that—(i) will prepare these teachers in all the essential components of reading instruction;

(ii) shall include—(I) information on instructional materials, programs, strategies, and approaches based on scientifically based reading research, including early intervention and reading remediation materials, programs, and approaches; and

(II) instruction in the use of screening, diagnostic, and classroom-based instructional reading assessments and other scientifically based procedures that effectively identify students who may be at risk for reading failure or who are having difficulty reading; and


(iii) shall be provided by eligible professional development providers;


(B) to strengthen and enhance preservice courses for students preparing, at all public institutions of higher education in the State, to teach kindergarten through grade 3 by—(i) reviewing such courses to determine whether the courses’ content is consistent with the findings of the most current scientifically based reading research, including findings on the essential components of reading instruction;

(ii) following up such reviews with recommendations to ensure that such institutions offer courses that meet the highest standards; and

(iii) preparing a report on the results of such reviews, submitting the report to the reading and literacy partnership for the State established under section 6363(d) of this title, and making the report available for public review by means of the Internet; and


(C) to make recommendations on how the State licensure and certification standards in the area of reading might be improved.


(4) Technical assistance for local educational agencies and schoolsA State educational agency may expend not more than 25 percent of the amount of the funds made available under paragraph (1) for one or more of the following:(A) Assisting local educational agencies in accomplishing the tasks required to design and implement a program under this subpart, including—(i) selecting and implementing a program or programs of reading instruction based on scientifically based reading research;

(ii) selecting screening, diagnostic, and classroom-based instructional reading assessments; and

(iii) identifying eligible professional development providers to help prepare reading teachers to teach students using the programs and assessments described in clauses (i) and (ii).


(B) Providing expanded opportunities to students in kindergarten through grade 3 who are served by eligible local educational agencies for receiving reading assistance from alternative providers that includes—(i) screening, diagnostic, and classroom-based instructional reading assessments; and

(ii) as need is indicated by the assessments under clause (i), instruction based on scientifically based reading research that includes the essential components of reading instruction.



(5) Planning, administration, and reporting(A) Expenditure of fundsA State educational agency may expend not more than 10 percent of the amount of funds made available under paragraph (1) for the activities described in this paragraph.


(B) Planning and administrationA State educational agency that receives a grant under this section may expend funds made available under subparagraph (A) for planning and administration relating to the State uses of funds authorized under this subpart, including the following:(i) Administering the distribution of competitive subgrants to eligible local educational agencies under subsection (c) of this section and section 6364(d) of this title.

(ii) Assessing and evaluating, on a regular basis, eligible local educational agency activities assisted under this subpart, with respect to whether they have been effective in increasing the number of children in grades 1, 2, and 3 served under this subpart who can read at or above grade level.


(C) Annual reporting(i) In generalA State educational agency that receives a grant under this section shall expend funds made available under subparagraph (A) to provide the Secretary annually with a report on the implementation of this subpart.


(ii) Information includedEach report under this subparagraph shall include information on the following:(I) Evidence that the State educational agency is fulfilling its obligations under this subpart.

(II) Specific identification of those schools and local educational agencies that report the largest gains in reading achievement.

(III) The progress the State educational agency and local educational agencies within the State are making in reducing the number of students served under this subpart in grades 1, 2, and 3 who are reading below grade level, as demonstrated by such information as teacher reports and school evaluations of mastery of the essential components of reading instruction.

(IV) Evidence on whether the State educational agency and local educational agencies within the State have significantly increased the number of students reading at grade level or above, significantly increased the percentages of students described in section 6311(b)(2)(C)(v)(II) of this title who are reading at grade level or above, and successfully implemented this subpart.


(iii) Privacy protectionData in the report shall be reported in a manner that protects the privacy of individuals.


(iv) ContractTo the extent practicable, a State educational agency shall enter into a contract with an entity that conducts scientifically based reading research, under which contract the entity will assist the State educational agency in producing the reports required to be submitted under this subparagraph.





(e) Review(1) Progress report(A) SubmissionNot later than 60 days after the termination of the third year of the grant period, each State educational agency receiving a grant under this section shall submit a progress report to the Secretary.


(B) Information includedThe progress report shall include information on the progress the State educational agency and local educational agencies within the State are making in reducing the number of students served under this subpart in grades 1, 2, and 3 who are reading below grade level (as demonstrated by such information as teacher reports and school evaluations of mastery of the essential components of reading instruction). The report shall also include evidence from the State educational agency and local educational agencies within the State that the State educational agency and the local educational agencies have significantly increased the number of students reading at grade level or above, significantly increased the percentages of students described in section 6311(b)(2)(C)(v)(II) of this title who are reading at grade level or above, and successfully implemented this subpart.



(2) Peer reviewThe progress report described in paragraph (1) shall be reviewed by the peer review panel convened under section 6363(c)(2) of this title.


(3) Consequences of insufficient progressAfter submission of the progress report described in paragraph (1), if the Secretary determines that the State educational agency is not making significant progress in meeting the purposes of this subpart, the Secretary may withhold from the State educational agency, in whole or in part, further payments under this section in accordance with section 1234d of this title or take such other action authorized by law as the Secretary determines necessary, including providing technical assistance upon request of the State educational agency.



(f) Funds not used for State level activitiesAny portion of funds described in subsection (d)(1) of this section that a State educational agency does not expend in accordance with subsection (d)(1) of this section shall be expended for the purpose of making subgrants in accordance with subsection (c) of this section.


(g) Supplement, not supplantA State or local educational agency shall use funds received under this subpart only to supplement the level of non-Federal funds that, in the absence of funds under this subpart, would be expended for activities authorized under this subpart, and not to supplant those non-Federal funds.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1202, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1535; amended Pub. L. 108–7, div. G, title III, § 305, Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 333.)


References in TextThe Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(7)(A)(ii)(II), is title VI of Pub. L. 91–230, Apr. 13, 1970, 84 Stat. 175, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1400 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1400 of this title and Tables.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6362, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1202, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3578; amended Pub. L. 105–220, title II, § 251(b)(2)(A), Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1079; Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(f) [title VIII, §§ 201, 202], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–337, 2681–407, 2681–408; Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title XVI, §§ 1604(c)–(e), 1606(b)(1)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A–329, 2763A–330, 2763A–334, authorized Even Start program, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110. See section 6381a of this title.
A prior section 1202 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 2782 of this title, prior to the general amendment of Pub. L. 89–10 by Pub. L. 103–382.

Amendments2003—Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 108–7 added subsec. (g).


