§ 2078. International Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund(a) EstablishmentThere is established in the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the International Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund. The income from the fund shall be used for operations of the International Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue to promote dialogue and scholarship in the Middle East. The fund may accept contributions and gifts from public and private sources.


(b) Duties of Secretary of State; investmentsIt shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to invest in full amounts made available to the fund. Such investments may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the United States or in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and interest by the United States. The interest on, and the proceeds from the sale or redemption of, any obligations held in the fund shall be credited to and form a part of the fund and shall remain available without fiscal year limitation.


(c) Authorization of appropriationsFor each fiscal year, there is authorized to be appropriated from the fund for the operations of the International Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue the total amount of the interest and earnings credited to the fund under subsection (b).


(d) Authorization of additional appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to the International Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund, without fiscal year limitation, such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section and to provide for the permanent endowment for the International Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue established under this section.


(e) Ownership of Center locationThe United States, through the Department of State, shall retain ownership of the Palazzo Corpi building in Istanbul, Turkey, and the Secretary of State shall be responsible for maintaining the International Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue at such location.


(Pub. L. 108–199, div. B, title VI, § 633, Jan. 23, 2004, 118 Stat. 100.)

Codification
Section is comprised of section 633 of div. B of Pub. L. 108–199. Subsec. (f) of section 633 of div. B of Pub. L. 108–199 amended section 1321(a) of Title 31, Money and Finance.


