§ 287o. National Commission on Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Cooperation; membership; meetings; expenses
In fulfillment of article VII of the constitution of the Organization, the Secretary of State shall cause to be organized a National Commission on Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Corporation 11 So in original. Probably should be “Cooperation”. of not to exceed one hundred members. Such Commission shall be appointed by the Secretary of State and shall consist of (a) not more than sixty representatives of principal national, voluntary organizations interested in educational, scientific, and cultural matters; and (b) not more than forty outstanding persons selected by the Secretary of State, including not more than ten persons holding office under or employed by the Government of the United States, not more than fifteen representatives of the educational, scientific, and cultural interests of State and local governments, and not more than fifteen persons chosen at large. The Secretary of State is authorized to name in the first instance fifty of the principal national voluntary organizations, each of which shall be invited to designate one representative for appointment to the National Commission. Thereafter, the National Commission shall periodically review and, if deemed advisable, revise the list of such organizations designating representatives in order to achieve a desirable rotation among organizations represented. To constitute the initial Commission, one-third of the members shall be appointed to serve for a term of one year, one-third for a term of two years, and one-third or the remainder thereof for a term of three years; from thence on following, all members shall be appointed for a term of three years each, but no member shall serve more than two consecutive terms. The National Commission shall meet at least once annually. The National Commission shall designate from among its members an executive committee, and may designate such other committees as may prove necessary, to consult with the Department of State and to perform such other functions as the National Commission shall delegate to them. No member of the National Commission shall be allowed any salary or other compensation for services: Provided, however, That he may be paid transportation and other expenses as authorized by section 5703 of title 5. The Department of State is authorized to provide the necessary secretariat for the Commission.
(July 30, 1946, ch. 700, § 3, 60 Stat. 713; Pub. L. 87–139, § 9, Aug. 14, 1961, 75 Stat. 341.)


References in TextArticle VII of the constitution of the Organization, referred to in text, is article VII of the Constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization, which is set out as a note under section 287m of this title.

Codification
“Section 5703 of title 5” substituted in text for “section 5 of the Administrative Expenses Act of 1946, as amended (5 U.S.C. 73b–2)” on authority of Pub. L. 89–554, § 7(b), Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 631, the first section of which enacted Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Amendments1961—Pub. L. 87–139 substituted provisions for payment of transportation and other expenses as authorized by section 5703 of title 5, for provisions authorizing payment of actual transportation expenses plus a $10 maximum per diem.


