§ 7267b. Grant program authorized(a) AuthorizationThe Secretary is authorized to award a competitive grant to a national nonprofit educational organization that has as its primary purpose the improvement of the quality of student understanding of personal finance and economics through effective teaching of economics in the Nation’s classrooms (referred to in this subpart as the “grantee”).


(b) Uses of funds(1) Direct activitiesThe grantee shall use 25 percent of the funds made available through the grant for a fiscal year—(A) to strengthen and expand the grantee’s relationships with State and local personal finance, entrepreneurial, and economic education organizations;

(B) to support and promote training of teachers who teach a grade from kindergarten through grade 12 regarding economics, including the dissemination of information on effective practices and research findings regarding the teaching of economics;

(C) to support research on effective teaching practices and the development of assessment instruments to document student understanding of personal finance and economics; and

(D) to develop and disseminate appropriate materials to foster economic literacy.


(2) SubgrantsThe grantee shall use 75 percent of the funds made available through the grant for a fiscal year to award subgrants to State educational agencies or local educational agencies, and State or local economic, personal finance, or entrepreneurial education organizations (referred to in this section as the “recipient”). The grantee shall award such a subgrant to pay for the Federal share of the cost of enabling the recipient to work in partnership with one or more of the entities described in paragraph (3) for one or more of the following purposes:(A) Collaboratively establishing and conducting teacher training programs that use effective and innovative approaches to the teaching of economics, personal finance, and entrepreneurship.

(B) Providing resources to school districts that desire to incorporate economics and personal finance into the curricula of the schools in the districts.

(C) Conducting evaluations of the impact of economic and financial literacy education on students.

(D) Conducting economic and financial literacy education research.

(E) Creating and conducting school-based student activities to promote consumer, economic, and personal finance education (such as saving, investing, and entrepreneurial education) and to encourage awareness and student academic achievement in economics.

(F) Encouraging replication of best practices to promote economic and financial literacy.


(3) Partnership entitiesThe entities described in this paragraph are the following:(A) A private sector entity.

(B) A State educational agency.

(C) A local educational agency.

(D) An institution of higher education.

(E) An organization promoting economic development.

(F) An organization promoting educational excellence.

(G) An organization promoting personal finance or entrepreneurial education.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5533, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1848.)
