§ 6438. Transition services(a) Transition servicesEach State agency shall reserve not less than 15 percent and not more than 30 percent of the amount such agency receives under this subpart for any fiscal year to support—(1) projects that facilitate the transition of children and youth from State-operated institutions to schools served by local educational agencies; or

(2) the successful reentry of youth offenders, who are age 20 or younger and have received a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent, into postsecondary education, or vocational and technical training programs, through strategies designed to expose the youth to, and prepare the youth for, postsecondary education, or vocational and technical training programs, such as—(A) preplacement programs that allow adjudicated or incarcerated youth to audit or attend courses on college, university, or community college campuses, or through programs provided in institutional settings;

(B) worksite schools, in which institutions of higher education and private or public employers partner to create programs to help students make a successful transition to postsecondary education and employment; and

(C) essential support services to ensure the success of the youth, such as—(i) personal, vocational and technical, and academic, counseling;

(ii) placement services designed to place the youth in a university, college, or junior college program;

(iii) information concerning, and assistance in obtaining, available student financial aid;

(iv) counseling services; and

(v) job placement services.




(b) Conduct of projectsA project supported under this section may be conducted directly by the State agency, or through a contract or other arrangement with one or more local educational agencies, other public agencies, or private nonprofit organizations.


(c) Rule of constructionNothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a school that receives funds under subsection (a) of this section from serving neglected and delinquent children and youth simultaneously with students with similar educational needs, in the same educational settings where appropriate.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1418, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1586.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6438, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1418, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3597, related to transition services, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


