§ 6932. Research(a) AdministrationThe Secretary shall conduct research activities authorized by this subpart through the Institute of Education Sciences in coordination and collaboration with the Office of English Language Acquisition, Language Enhancement, and Academic Achievement for Limited English Proficient Students.


(b) RequirementsSuch research activities—(1) shall have a practical application to teachers, counselors, paraprofessionals, school administrators, parents, and others involved in improving the education of limited English proficient children and their families;

(2) may include research on effective instruction practices for multilingual classes, and on effective instruction strategies to be used by a teacher or other staff member who does not know the native language of a limited English proficient child in the teacher’s or staff member’s classroom;

(3) may include establishing (through the National Center for Education Statistics in consultation with experts in second language acquisition and scientifically based research on teaching limited English proficient children) a common definition of “limited English proficient child” for purposes of national data collection; and

(4) shall be administered by individuals with expertise in second language acquisition, scientifically based research on teaching limited English proficient children, and the needs of limited English proficient children and their families.


(c) Field-initiated research(1) In generalThe Secretary shall reserve not less than 5 percent of the funds made available to carry out this section for field-initiated research conducted by recipients of grants under subpart 1 of this part or this subpart who have received such grants within the previous 5 years. Such research may provide for longitudinal studies of limited English proficient children or teachers who serve such children, monitoring the education of such children from entry into language instruction educational programs through secondary school completion.


(2) ApplicationsAn applicant for assistance under this subsection may submit an application for such assistance to the Secretary at the same time as the applicant submits another application under subpart 1 of this part or this subpart. The Secretary shall complete a review of such applications on a timely basis to allow the activities carried out under research and program grants to be coordinated when recipients are awarded two or more of such grants.



(d) ConsultationThe Secretary shall consult with agencies, organizations, and individuals that are engaged in research and practice on the education of limited English proficient children, language instruction educational programs, or related research, to identify areas of study and activities to be funded under this section.


(e) Data collectionThe Secretary shall provide for the collection of data on limited English proficient children as part of the data systems operated by the Department.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title III, § 3222, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title III, § 301, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1717; amended Pub. L. 107–279, title IV, § 404(d)(5)(A), Nov. 5, 2002, 116 Stat. 1986.)

Amendments2002—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 107–279 substituted “Institute of Education Sciences” for “Office of Educational Research and Improvement”.

Research Relating to Bilingual EducationPub. L. 100–297, title VI, § 6211, Apr. 28, 1988, 102 Stat. 429, provided that:
“(a) Research and Development.—The Secretary shall, through competitive contracts under this section, provide financial assistance for research and development proposals submitted by institutions of higher education, private for-profit and nonprofit organizations, State and local educational agencies, and individuals.

“(b) Authorized Activities.—Research activities authorized to be assisted under this section shall include—“(1) studies to determine and evaluate effective models for bilingual education programs;

“(2) studies which examine the process by which individuals acquire a second language and master the subject matter skills required for grade-promotion and graduation, and which identify effective methods for teaching English and subject matter skills within the context of a bilingual education program or special alternative instructional program to students who have language proficiencies other than English;

“(3) longitudinal studies to measure the effect of title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [former 20 U.S.C. 3281 et seq.] on students enrolled in programs under such title (including a longitudinal study of the impact of bilingual education programs on limited-English proficient students using a nationally representative sample of the programs funded under such title and which provides information including data on grade retention, academic performance, and dropout rates);

“(4) studies to determine effective and reliable methods for identifying students who are entitled to services under such title and for determining when their English language proficiency is sufficiently well developed to permit them to derive optimal benefits from an all-English instructional program;

“(5) the operation of a clearinghouse which shall collect, analyze, and disseminate information about bilingual education and related programs (and coordinate its activities with the National Diffusion Network);

“(6) studies to determine effective methods of teaching English to adults who have language proficiencies other than English;

“(7) studies to determine and evaluate effective methods of instruction for bilingual programs, taking into account language and cultural differences among students;

“(8) studies to determine effective approaches to preservice and inservice training for teachers, taking into account the language and cultural differences of their students;

“(9) the effect of such title on the capacity of local educational agencies to operate bilingual programs following the termination of assistance under this [such] title; and

“(10) studies to determine effective and reliable methods for identifying gifted and talented students who have language proficiencies other than English.


“(c) Consultation and Delegation of Authority.—In carrying out the responsibilities of this section, the Secretary may delegate authority to the Director, and in any event, shall consult with the Director, representatives of State and local educational agencies, appropriate groups and organizations involved in bilingual education, the Committee on Labor and Human Resources [now Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions] of the Senate, and the Committee on Education and Labor [now Committee on Education and the Workforce] of the House of Representatives.

“(d) Publication of Proposals.—The Secretary shall publish and disseminate all requests for proposals in research and development assisted under such title.

“(e) Limitation of Authority.—Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing the Secretary to conduct or support studies or analyses of the content of educational textbooks.”





