§ 6315. Targeted assistance schools(a) In generalIn all schools selected to receive funds under section 6313(c) of this title that are ineligible for a schoolwide program under section 6314 of this title, or that choose not to operate such a schoolwide program, a local educational agency serving such school may use funds received under this part only for programs that provide services to eligible children under subsection (b) of this section identified as having the greatest need for special assistance.


(b) Eligible children(1) Eligible population(A) In generalThe eligible population for services under this section is—(i) children not older than age 21 who are entitled to a free public education through grade 12; and

(ii) children who are not yet at a grade level at which the local educational agency provides a free public education.


(B) Eligible children from eligible populationFrom the population described in subparagraph (A), eligible children are children identified by the school as failing, or most at risk of failing, to meet the State’s challenging student academic achievement standards on the basis of multiple, educationally related, objective criteria established by the local educational agency and supplemented by the school, except that children from preschool through grade 2 shall be selected solely on the basis of such criteria as teacher judgment, interviews with parents, and developmentally appropriate measures.



(2) Children included(A) In generalChildren who are economically disadvantaged, children with disabilities, migrant children or limited English proficient children, are eligible for services under this part on the same basis as other children selected to receive services under this part.


(B) Head Start, Even Start, or Early Reading First childrenA child who, at any time in the 2 years preceding the year for which the determination is made, participated in a Head Start, Even Start, or Early Reading First program, or in preschool services under this subchapter, is eligible for services under this part.


(C) Part C childrenA child who, at any time in the 2 years preceding the year for which the determination is made, received services under part C of this subchapter is eligible for services under this part.


(D) Neglected or delinquent childrenA child in a local institution for neglected or delinquent children and youth or attending a community day program for such children is eligible for services under this part.


(E) Homeless childrenA child who is homeless and attending any school served by the local educational agency is eligible for services under this part.



(3) Special ruleFunds received under this part may not be used to provide services that are otherwise required by law to be made available to children described in paragraph (2) but may be used to coordinate or supplement such services.



(c) Components of a targeted assistance school program(1) In generalTo assist targeted assistance schools and local educational agencies to meet their responsibility to provide for all their students served under this part the opportunity to meet the State’s challenging student academic achievement standards in subjects as determined by the State, each targeted assistance program under this section shall—(A) use such program’s resources under this part to help participating children meet such State’s challenging student academic achievement standards expected for all children;

(B) ensure that planning for students served under this part is incorporated into existing school planning;

(C) use effective methods and instructional strategies that are based on scientifically based research that strengthens the core academic program of the school and that—(i) give primary consideration to providing extended learning time, such as an extended school year, before- and after-school, and summer programs and opportunities;

(ii) help provide an accelerated, high-quality curriculum, including applied learning; and

(iii) minimize removing children from the regular classroom during regular school hours for instruction provided under this part;


(D) coordinate with and support the regular education program, which may include services to assist preschool children in the transition from early childhood programs such as Head Start, Even Start, Early Reading First or State-run preschool programs to elementary school programs;

(E) provide instruction by highly qualified teachers;

(F) in accordance with subsection (e)(3) of this section and section 6319 of this title, provide opportunities for professional development with resources provided under this part, and, to the extent practicable, from other sources, for teachers, principals, and paraprofessionals, including, if appropriate, pupil services personnel, parents, and other staff, who work with participating children in programs under this section or in the regular education program;

(G) provide strategies to increase parental involvement in accordance with section 6318 of this title, such as family literacy services; and

(H) coordinate and integrate Federal, State, and local services and programs, including programs supported under this chapter, violence prevention programs, nutrition programs, housing programs, Head Start, adult education, vocational and technical education, and job training.


(2) RequirementsEach school conducting a program under this section shall assist participating children selected in accordance with subsection (b) of this section to meet the State’s proficient and advanced levels of achievement by—(A) the coordinating of resources provided under this part with other resources; and

(B) reviewing, on an ongoing basis, the progress of participating children and revising the targeted assistance program, if necessary, to provide additional assistance to enable such children to meet the State’s challenging student academic achievement standards, such as an extended school year, before- and after-school, and summer programs and opportunities, training for teachers regarding how to identify students who need additional assistance, and training for teachers regarding how to implement student academic achievement standards in the classroom.



(d) Integration of professional developmentTo promote the integration of staff supported with funds under this part into the regular school program and overall school planning and improvement efforts, public school personnel who are paid with funds received under this part may—(1) participate in general professional development and school planning activities; and

(2) assume limited duties that are assigned to similar personnel who are not so paid, including duties beyond classroom instruction or that do not benefit participating children, so long as the amount of time spent on such duties is the same proportion of total work time as prevails with respect to similar personnel at the same school.


(e) Special rules(1) Simultaneous serviceNothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a school from serving students under this section simultaneously with students with similar educational needs, in the same educational settings where appropriate.


(2) Comprehensive servicesIf—(A) health, nutrition, and other social services are not otherwise available to eligible children in a targeted assistance school and such school, if appropriate, has engaged in a comprehensive needs assessment and established a collaborative partnership with local service providers; and

(B) funds are not reasonably available from other public or private sources to provide such services, then a portion of the funds provided under this part may be used as a last resort to provide such services, including—(i) the provision of basic medical equipment, such as eyeglasses and hearing aids;

(ii) compensation of a coordinator; and

(iii) professional development necessary to assist teachers, pupil services personnel, other staff, and parents in identifying and meeting the comprehensive needs of eligible children.



(3) Professional developmentEach school receiving funds under this part for any fiscal year shall devote sufficient resources to carry out effectively the professional development activities described in subparagraph (F) of subsection (c)(1) of this section in accordance with section 6319 of this title for such fiscal year, and a school may enter into a consortium with another school to carry out such activities.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1115, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1475.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6315, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1115, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3539, related to targeted assistance schools, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


