§ 6918. Staff of the Commission(a) Personnel and administration committeeThe Commission shall have a personnel and administration committee composed of the Chairman, the Cochairman, the senior member of the Commission from the minority party of the House of Representatives, and the senior member of the Commission from the minority party of the Senate.


(b) Committee functionsAll decisions pertaining to the hiring, firing, and fixing of pay of personnel of the Commission shall be by a majority vote of the personnel and administration committee, except that—(1) the Chairman shall be entitled to appoint and fix the pay of the staff director, and the Cochairman shall be entitled to appoint and fix the pay of the Cochairman’s senior staff member; and

(2) the Chairman and Cochairman shall each have the authority to appoint, with the approval of the personnel and administration committee, at least four professional staff members who shall be responsible to the Chairman or the Cochairman (as the case may be) who appointed them.


Subject to subsection (d) of this section, the personnel and administration committee may appoint and fix the pay of such other personnel as it considers desirable.

(c) Staff appointmentsAll staff appointments shall be made without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, and without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and general schedule pay rates.


(d) Qualifications of professional staffThe personnel and administration committee shall ensure that the professional staff of the Commission consists of persons with expertise in areas including human rights, internationally recognized worker rights, international economics, law (including international law), rule of law and other foreign assistance programming, Chinese politics, economy and culture, and the Chinese language.


(e) Commission employees as congressional employees(1) In generalFor purposes of pay and other employment benefits, rights, and privileges, and for all other purposes, any employee of the Commission shall be considered to be a congressional employee as defined in section 2107 of title 5.


(2) Competitive statusFor purposes of section 3304(c)(1) 11 See References in Text note below. of title 5, employees of the Commission shall be considered as if they are in positions in which they are paid by the Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of Representatives.



(Pub. L. 106–286, div. B, title III, § 308, Oct. 10, 2000, 114 Stat. 899.)


References in TextSection 3304(c)(1) of title 5, referred to in subsec. (e)(2), probably means section 3304(c)(1) of title 5 prior to amendment by Pub. L. 104–65, § 16(a), (b), Dec. 19, 1995, 109 Stat. 703, which struck out section 3304(c) of title 5 and redesignated section 3304(d) of title 5 as 3304(c). Prior to amendment section 3304(c)(1) related to acquisition of competitive status by an individual who served for at least 3 years in the legislative branch in a position in which he was paid by the Secretary of the Senate or the Clerk of the House of Representatives.


