§ 6314. Schoolwide programs(a) Use of funds for schoolwide programs(1) In generalA local educational agency may consolidate and use funds under this part, together with other Federal, State, and local funds, in order to upgrade the entire educational program of a school that serves an eligible school attendance area in which not less than 40 percent of the children are from low-income families, or not less than 40 percent of the children enrolled in the school are from such families.


(2) Identification of students not required(A) In generalNo school participating in a schoolwide program shall be required—(i) to identify particular children under this part as eligible to participate in a schoolwide program; or

(ii) to provide services to such children that are supplementary, as otherwise required by section 6321(b) of this title.


(B) Supplemental fundsA school participating in a schoolwide program shall use funds available to carry out this section only to supplement the amount of funds that would, in the absence of funds under this part, be made available from non-Federal sources for the school, including funds needed to provide services that are required by law for children with disabilities and children with limited English proficiency.



(3) Exemption from statutory and regulatory requirements(A) ExemptionExcept as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary may, through publication of a notice in the Federal Register, exempt schoolwide programs under this section from statutory or regulatory provisions of any other noncompetitive formula grant program administered by the Secretary (other than formula or discretionary grant programs under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.], except as provided in section 613(a)(2)(D) of such Act [20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(2)(D)]), or any discretionary grant program administered by the Secretary, to support schoolwide programs if the intent and purposes of such other programs are met.


(B) RequirementsA school that chooses to use funds from such other programs shall not be relieved of the requirements relating to health, safety, civil rights, student and parental participation and involvement, services to private school children, maintenance of effort, comparability of services, uses of Federal funds to supplement, not supplant non-Federal funds, or the distribution of funds to State educational agencies or local educational agencies that apply to the receipt of funds from such programs.


(C) RecordsA school that consolidates and uses funds from different Federal programs under this section shall not be required to maintain separate fiscal accounting records, by program, that identify the specific activities supported by those particular funds as long as the school maintains records that demonstrate that the schoolwide program, considered as a whole, addresses the intent and purposes of each of the Federal programs that were consolidated to support the schoolwide program.



(4) Professional developmentEach school receiving funds under this part for any fiscal year shall devote sufficient resources to effectively carry out the activities described in subsection (b)(1)(D) of this section in accordance with section 6319 of this title for such fiscal year, except that a school may enter into a consortium with another school to carry out such activities.



(b) Components of a schoolwide program(1) In generalA schoolwide program shall include the following components:(A) A comprehensive needs assessment of the entire school (including taking into account the needs of migratory children as defined in section 6399(2) of this title) that is based on information which includes the achievement of children in relation to the State academic content standards and the State student academic achievement standards described in section 6311(b)(1) of this title.

(B) Schoolwide reform strategies that—(i) provide opportunities for all children to meet the State’s proficient and advanced levels of student academic achievement described in section 6311(b)(1)(D) of this title;

(ii) use effective methods and instructional strategies that are based on scientifically based research that—(I) strengthen the core academic program in the school;

(II) increase the amount and quality of learning time, such as providing an extended school year and before- and after-school and summer programs and opportunities, and help provide an enriched and accelerated curriculum; and

(III) include strategies for meeting the educational needs of historically underserved populations;


(iii)(I) include strategies to address the needs of all children in the school, but particularly the needs of low-achieving children and those at risk of not meeting the State student academic achievement standards who are members of the target population of any program that is included in the schoolwide program, which may include—(aa) counseling, pupil services, and mentoring services;

(bb) college and career awareness and preparation, such as college and career guidance, personal finance education, and innovative teaching methods, which may include applied learning and team-teaching strategies; and

(cc) the integration of vocational and technical education programs; and


(II) address how the school will determine if such needs have been met; and


(iv) are consistent with, and are designed to implement, the State and local improvement plans, if any.


(C) Instruction by highly qualified teachers.

(D) In accordance with section 6319 of this title and subsection (a)(4) of this section, high-quality and ongoing professional development for teachers, principals, and paraprofessionals and, if appropriate, pupil services personnel, parents, and other staff to enable all children in the school to meet the State’s student academic achievement standards.

(E) Strategies to attract high-quality highly qualified teachers to high-need schools.

(F) Strategies to increase parental involvement in accordance with section 6318 of this title, such as family literary services.

(G) Plans for assisting preschool children in the transition from early childhood programs, such as Head Start, Even Start, Early Reading First, or a State-run preschool program, to local elementary school programs.

(H) Measures to include teachers in the decisions regarding the use of academic assessments described in section 6311(b)(3) of this title in order to provide information on, and to improve, the achievement of individual students and the overall instructional program.

(I) Activities to ensure that students who experience difficulty mastering the proficient or advanced levels of academic achievement standards required by section 6311(b)(1) of this title shall be provided with effective, timely additional assistance which shall include measures to ensure that students’ difficulties are identified on a timely basis and to provide sufficient information on which to base effective assistance.

(J) Coordination and integration of Federal, State, and local services and programs, including programs supported under this chapter, violence prevention programs, nutrition programs, housing programs, Head Start, adult education, vocational and technical education, and job training.


(2) Plan(A) In generalAny eligible school that desires to operate a schoolwide program shall first develop (or amend a plan for such a program that was in existence on the day before January 8, 2002), in consultation with the local educational agency and its school support team or other technical assistance provider under section 6317 of this title, a comprehensive plan for reforming the total instructional program in the school that—(i) describes how the school will implement the components described in paragraph (1);

(ii) describes how the school will use resources under this part and from other sources to implement those components;

(iii) includes a list of State educational agency and local educational agency programs and other Federal programs under subsection (a)(3) of this section that will be consolidated in the schoolwide program; and

(iv) describes how the school will provide individual student academic assessment results in a language the parents can understand, including an interpretation of those results, to the parents of a child who participates in the academic assessments required by section 6311(b)(3) of this title.


(B) Plan developmentThe comprehensive plan shall be—(i) developed during a one-year period, unless—(I) the local educational agency, after considering the recommendation of the technical assistance providers under section 6317 of this title, determines that less time is needed to develop and implement the schoolwide program; or

(II) the school is operating a schoolwide program on the day preceding January 8, 2002, in which case such school may continue to operate such program, but shall develop amendments to its existing plan during the first year of assistance after that date to reflect the provisions of this section;


(ii) developed with the involvement of parents and other members of the community to be served and individuals who will carry out such plan, including teachers, principals, and administrators (including administrators of programs described in other parts of this subchapter), and, if appropriate, pupil services personnel, technical assistance providers, school staff, and, if the plan relates to a secondary school, students from such school;

(iii) in effect for the duration of the school’s participation under this part and reviewed and revised, as necessary, by the school;

(iv) available to the local educational agency, parents, and the public, and the information contained in such plan shall be in an understandable and uniform format and, to the extent practicable, provided in a language that the parents can understand; and

(v) if appropriate, developed in coordination with programs under Reading First, Early Reading First, Even Start, the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 [20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.], and the Head Start Act [42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.].




(c) Prekindergarten programA school that is eligible for a schoolwide program under this section may use funds made available under this part to establish or enhance prekindergarten programs for children below the age of 6, such as Even Start programs or Early Reading First programs.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1114, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1471; amended Pub. L. 109–270, § 2(f)(3), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 747.)


References in TextThe Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(3)(A), is title VI of Pub. L. 91–230, Apr. 13, 1970, 84 Stat. 175, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1400 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1400 of this title and Tables.
The Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(B)(v), is Pub. L. 88–210, Dec. 18, 1963, 77 Stat. 403, as amended generally by Pub. L. 109–270, § 1(b), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 683, which is classified generally to chapter 44 (§ 2301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2301 of this title and Tables.
The Head Start Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(B)(v), is subchapter B (§§ 635–657) of chapter 8 of subtitle A of title VI of Pub. L. 97–35, Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 499, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 9831 et seq.) of chapter 105 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 9801 of Title 42 and Tables.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6314, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1114, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3534; amended Pub. L. 105–332, § 3(c)(1), Oct. 31, 1998, 112 Stat. 3125, related to schoolwide programs, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.

Amendments2006—Subsec. (b)(2)(B)(v). Pub. L. 109–270 substituted “the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006” for “Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act of 1998”.


