§ 6320. Participation of children enrolled in private schools(a) General requirement(1) In generalTo the extent consistent with the number of eligible children identified under section 6315(b) of this title in the school district served by a local educational agency who are enrolled in private elementary schools and secondary schools, a local educational agency shall, after timely and meaningful consultation with appropriate private school officials, provide such children, on an equitable basis, special educational services or other benefits under this part (such as dual enrollment, educational radio and television, computer equipment and materials, other technology, and mobile educational services and equipment) that address their needs, and shall ensure that teachers and families of the children participate, on an equitable basis, in services and activities developed pursuant to sections 6318 and 6319 of this title.


(2) Secular, neutral, nonideologicalSuch educational services or other benefits, including materials and equipment, shall be secular, neutral, and nonideological.


(3) EquityEducational services and other benefits for such private school children shall be equitable in comparison to services and other benefits for public school children participating under this part, and shall be provided in a timely manner.


(4) ExpendituresExpenditures for educational services and other benefits to eligible private school children shall be equal to the proportion of funds allocated to participating school attendance areas based on the number of children from low-income families who attend private schools, which the local educational agency may determine each year or every 2 years.


(5) Provision of servicesThe local educational agency may provide services under this section directly or through contracts with public and private agencies, organizations, and institutions.



(b) Consultation(1) In generalTo ensure timely and meaningful consultation, a local educational agency shall consult with appropriate private school officials during the design and development of such agency’s programs under this part, on issues such as—(A) how the children’s needs will be identified;

(B) what services will be offered;

(C) how, where, and by whom the services will be provided;

(D) how the services will be academically assessed and how the results of that assessment will be used to improve those services;

(E) the size and scope of the equitable services to be provided to the eligible private school children, and the proportion of funds that is allocated under subsection (a)(4) of this section for such services;

(F) the method or sources of data that are used under subsection (c) of this section and section 6313(c)(1) of this title to determine the number of children from low-income families in participating school attendance areas who attend private schools;

(G) how and when the agency will make decisions about the delivery of services to such children, including a thorough consideration and analysis of the views of the private school officials on the provision of services through a contract with potential third-party providers; and

(H) how, if the agency disagrees with the views of the private school officials on the provision of services through a contract, the local educational agency will provide in writing to such private school officials an analysis of the reasons why the local educational agency has chosen not to use a contractor.


(2) TimingSuch consultation shall include meetings of agency and private school officials and shall occur before the local educational agency makes any decision that affects the opportunities of eligible private school children to participate in programs under this part. Such meetings shall continue throughout implementation and assessment of services provided under this section.


(3) DiscussionSuch consultation shall include a discussion of service delivery mechanisms a local educational agency can use to provide equitable services to eligible private school children.


(4) DocumentationEach local educational agency shall maintain in the agency’s records and provide to the State educational agency involved a written affirmation signed by officials of each participating private school that the consultation required by this section has occurred. If such officials do not provide such affirmation within a reasonable period of time, the local educational agency shall forward the documentation that such consultation has taken place to the State educational agency.


(5) Compliance(A) In generalA private school official shall have the right to complain to the State educational agency that the local educational agency did not engage in consultation that was meaningful and timely, or did not give due consideration to the views of the private school official.


(B) ProcedureIf the private school official wishes to complain, the official shall provide the basis of the noncompliance with this section by the local educational agency to the State educational agency, and the local educational agency shall forward the appropriate documentation to the State educational agency.




(c) Allocation for equitable service to private school students(1) CalculationA local educational agency shall have the final authority, consistent with this section, to calculate the number of children, ages 5 through 17, who are from low-income families and attend private schools by—(A) using the same measure of low income used to count public school children;

(B) using the results of a survey that, to the extent possible, protects the identity of families of private school students, and allowing such survey results to be extrapolated if complete actual data are unavailable;

(C) applying the low-income percentage of each participating public school attendance area, determined pursuant to this section, to the number of private school children who reside in that school attendance area; or

(D) using an equated measure of low income correlated with the measure of low income used to count public school children.


(2) Complaint processAny dispute regarding low-income data for private school students shall be subject to the complaint process authorized in section 7883 of this title.11 See References in Text note below.



(d) Public control of funds(1) In generalThe control of funds provided under this part, and title to materials, equipment, and property purchased with such funds, shall be in a public agency, and a public agency shall administer such funds, materials, equipment, and property.


(2) Provision of services(A) ProviderThe provision of services under this section shall be provided—(i) by employees of a public agency; or

(ii) through contract by such public agency with an individual, association, agency, or organization.


(B) RequirementIn the provision of such services, such employee, individual, association, agency, or organization shall be independent of such private school and of any religious organization, and such employment or contract shall be under the control and supervision of such public agency.




(e) Standards for a bypassIf a local educational agency is prohibited by law from providing for the participation in programs on an equitable basis of eligible children enrolled in private elementary schools and secondary schools, or if the Secretary determines that a local educational agency has substantially failed or is unwilling, to provide for such participation, as required by this section, the Secretary shall—(1) waive the requirements of this section for such local educational agency;

(2) arrange for the provision of services to such children through arrangements that shall be subject to the requirements of this section and sections 7883 and 7884 of this title; and

(3) in making the determination under this subsection, consider one or more factors, including the quality, size, scope, and location of the program and the opportunity of eligible children to participate.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1120, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1508.)


References in TextSection 7883, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), was in the original “section 9505”, and was translated as reading “section 9503”, meaning section 9503 of Pub. L. 89–10, to reflect the probable intent of Congress, because provisions authorizing complaint process are contained in section 9503.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6320, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1119, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3555, related to professional development, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.
A prior section 1120 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 6321 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


