§ 1022a. Partnership grants(a) Program authorizedFrom amounts made available under section 1022h of this title, the Secretary is authorized to award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible partnerships, to enable the eligible partnerships to carry out the activities described in subsection (c).


(b) ApplicationEach eligible partnership desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may require. Each such application shall contain—(1) a needs assessment of the partners in the eligible partnership with respect to the preparation, ongoing training, professional development, and retention of general education and special education teachers, principals, and, as applicable, early childhood educators;

(2) a description of the extent to which the program to be carried out with grant funds, as described in subsection (c), will prepare prospective and new teachers with strong teaching skills;

(3) a description of how such program will prepare prospective and new teachers to understand and use research and data to modify and improve classroom instruction;

(4) a description of—(A) how the eligible partnership will coordinate strategies and activities assisted under the grant with other teacher preparation or professional development programs, including programs funded under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.] and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.], and through the National Science Foundation; and

(B) how the activities of the partnership will be consistent with State, local, and other education reform activities that promote teacher quality and student academic achievement;


(5) an assessment that describes the resources available to the eligible partnership, including—(A) the integration of funds from other related sources;

(B) the intended use of the grant funds; and

(C) the commitment of the resources of the partnership to the activities assisted under this section, including financial support, faculty participation, and time commitments, and to the continuation of the activities when the grant ends;


(6) a description of—(A) how the eligible partnership will meet the purposes of this part;

(B) how the partnership will carry out the activities required under subsection (d) or (e), based on the needs identified in paragraph (1), with the goal of improving student academic achievement;

(C) if the partnership chooses to use funds under this section for a project or activities under subsection (f) or (g), how the partnership will carry out such project or required activities based on the needs identified in paragraph (1), with the goal of improving student academic achievement;

(D) the partnership’s evaluation plan under section 1022c(a) of this title;

(E) how the partnership will align the teacher preparation program under subsection (c) with the—(i) State early learning standards for early childhood education programs, as appropriate, and with the relevant domains of early childhood development; and

(ii) student academic achievement standards and academic content standards under section 1111(b)(1) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6311(b)(1)], established by the State in which the partnership is located;


(F) how the partnership will prepare general education teachers to teach students with disabilities, including training related to participation as a member of individualized education program teams, as defined in section 614(d)(1)(B) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1414(d)(1)(B)];

(G) how the partnership will prepare general education and special education teachers to teach students who are limited English proficient;

(H) how faculty at the partner institution will work, during the term of the grant, with highly qualified teachers in the classrooms of high-need schools served by the high-need local educational agency in the partnership to—(i) provide high-quality professional development activities to strengthen the content knowledge and teaching skills of elementary school and secondary school teachers; and

(ii) train other classroom teachers to implement literacy programs that incorporate the essential components of reading instruction;


(I) how the partnership will design, implement, or enhance a year-long and rigorous teaching preservice clinical program component;

(J) how the partnership will support in-service professional development strategies and activities; and

(K) how the partnership will collect, analyze, and use data on the retention of all teachers and early childhood educators in schools and early childhood education programs located in the geographic area served by the partnership to evaluate the effectiveness of the partnership’s teacher and educator support system; and


(7) with respect to the induction program required as part of the activities carried out under this section—(A) a demonstration that the schools and departments within the institution of higher education that are part of the induction program will effectively prepare teachers, including providing content expertise and expertise in teaching, as appropriate;

(B) a demonstration of the eligible partnership’s capability and commitment to, and the accessibility to and involvement of faculty in, the use of empirically-based practice and scientifically valid research on teaching and learning;

(C) a description of how the teacher preparation program will design and implement an induction program to support, through not less than the first two years of teaching, all new teachers who are prepared by the teacher preparation program in the partnership and who teach in the high-need local educational agency in the partnership, and, to the extent practicable, all new teachers who teach in such high-need local educational agency, in the further development of the new teachers’ teaching skills, including the use of mentors who are trained and compensated by such program for the mentors’ work with new teachers; and

(D) a description of how faculty involved in the induction program will be able to substantially participate in an early childhood education program or an elementary school or secondary school classroom setting, as applicable, including release time and receiving workload credit for such participation.



(c) Use of grant fundsAn eligible partnership that receives a grant under this section—(1) shall use grant funds to carry out a program for the preparation of teachers under subsection (d), a teaching residency program under subsection (e), or a combination of such programs; and

(2) may use grant funds to carry out a leadership development program under subsection (f).


(d) Partnership grants for the preparation of teachersAn eligible partnership that receives a grant to carry out a program for the preparation of teachers shall carry out an effective pre-baccalaureate teacher preparation program or a 5th year initial licensing program that includes all of the following:(1) Reforms(A) In generalImplementing reforms, described in subparagraph (B), within each teacher preparation program and, as applicable, each preparation program for early childhood education programs, of the eligible partnership that is assisted under this section, to hold each program accountable for—(i) preparing—(I) new or prospective teachers to be highly qualified (including teachers in rural school districts who may teach multiple subjects, special educators, and teachers of students who are limited English proficient who may teach multiple subjects);

(II) such teachers and, as applicable, early childhood educators, to understand empirically-based practice and scientifically valid research related to teaching and learning and the applicability of such practice and research, including through the effective use of technology, instructional techniques, and strategies consistent with the principles of universal design for learning, and through positive behavioral interventions and support strategies to improve student achievement; and

(III) as applicable, early childhood educators to be highly competent; and


(ii) promoting strong teaching skills and, as applicable, techniques for early childhood educators to improve children’s cognitive, social, emotional, and physical development.


(B) Required reformsThe reforms described in subparagraph (A) shall include—(i) implementing teacher preparation program curriculum changes that improve, evaluate, and assess how well all prospective and new teachers develop teaching skills;

(ii) using empirically-based practice and scientifically valid research, where applicable, about teaching and learning so that all prospective teachers and, as applicable, early childhood educators—(I) understand and can implement research-based teaching practices in classroom instruction;

(II) have knowledge of student learning methods;

(III) possess skills to analyze student academic achievement data and other measures of student learning, and use such data and measures to improve classroom instruction;

(IV) possess teaching skills and an understanding of effective instructional strategies across all applicable content areas that enable general education and special education teachers and early childhood educators to—(aa) meet the specific learning needs of all students, including students with disabilities, students who are limited English proficient, students who are gifted and talented, students with low literacy levels and, as applicable, children in early childhood education programs; and

(bb) differentiate instruction for such students;


(V) can effectively participate as a member of the individualized education program team, as defined in section 614(d)(1)(B) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1414(d)(1)(B)]; and

(VI) can successfully employ effective strategies for reading instruction using the essential components of reading instruction;


(iii) ensuring collaboration with departments, programs, or units of a partner institution outside of the teacher preparation program in all academic content areas to ensure that prospective teachers receive training in both teaching and relevant content areas in order to become highly qualified, which may include training in multiple subjects to teach multiple grade levels as may be needed for individuals preparing to teach in rural communities and for individuals preparing to teach students with disabilities as described in section 602(10)(D) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1401(10)(D)];

(iv) developing and implementing an induction program;

(v) developing admissions goals and priorities aligned with the hiring objectives of the high-need local educational agency in the eligible partnership; and

(vi) implementing program and curriculum changes, as applicable, to ensure that prospective teachers have the requisite content knowledge, preparation, and degree to teach Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate courses successfully.



(2) Clinical experience and interactionDeveloping and improving a sustained and high-quality preservice clinical education program to further develop the teaching skills of all prospective teachers and, as applicable, early childhood educators, involved in the program. Such program shall do the following:(A) Incorporate year-long opportunities for enrichment, including—(i) clinical learning in classrooms in high-need schools served by the high-need local educational agency in the eligible partnership, and identified by the eligible partnership; and

(ii) closely supervised interaction between prospective teachers and faculty, experienced teachers, principals, other administrators, and school leaders at early childhood education programs (as applicable), elementary schools, or secondary schools, and providing support for such interaction.


(B) Integrate pedagogy and classroom practice and promote effective teaching skills in academic content areas.

(C) Provide high-quality teacher mentoring.

(D) Be offered over the course of a program of teacher preparation.

(E) Be tightly aligned with course work (and may be developed as a fifth year of a teacher preparation program).

(F) Where feasible, allow prospective teachers to learn to teach in the same local educational agency in which the teachers will work, learning the instructional initiatives and curriculum of that local educational agency.

(G) As applicable, provide training and experience to enhance the teaching skills of prospective teachers to better prepare such teachers to meet the unique needs of teaching in rural or urban communities.

(H) Provide support and training for individuals participating in an activity for prospective or new teachers described in this paragraph or paragraph (1) or (3), and for individuals who serve as mentors for such teachers, based on each individual’s experience. Such support may include—(i) with respect to a prospective teacher or a mentor, release time for such individual’s participation;

(ii) with respect to a faculty member, receiving course workload credit and compensation for time teaching in the eligible partnership’s activities; and

(iii) with respect to a mentor, a stipend, which may include bonus, differential, incentive, or performance pay, based on the mentor’s extra skills and responsibilities.



(3) Induction programs for new teachersCreating an induction program for new teachers or, in the case of an early childhood education program, providing mentoring or coaching for new early childhood educators.


(4) Support and training for participants in early childhood education programsIn the case of an eligible partnership focusing on early childhood educator preparation, implementing initiatives that increase compensation for early childhood educators who attain associate or baccalaureate degrees in early childhood education.


(5) Teacher recruitmentDeveloping and implementing effective mechanisms (which may include alternative routes to State certification of teachers) to ensure that the eligible partnership is able to recruit qualified individuals to become highly qualified teachers through the activities of the eligible partnership, which may include an emphasis on recruiting into the teaching profession—(A) individuals from under 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a hyphen. represented populations;

(B) individuals to teach in rural communities and teacher shortage areas, including mathematics, science, special education, and the instruction of limited English proficient students; and

(C) mid-career professionals from other occupations, former military personnel, and recent college graduates with a record of academic distinction.


(6) Literacy trainingStrengthening the literacy teaching skills of prospective and, as applicable, new elementary school and secondary school teachers—(A) to implement literacy programs that incorporate the essential components of reading instruction;

(B) to use screening, diagnostic, formative, and summative assessments to determine students’ literacy levels, difficulties, and growth in order to improve classroom instruction and improve student reading and writing skills;

(C) to provide individualized, intensive, and targeted literacy instruction for students with deficiencies in literacy skills; and

(D) to integrate literacy skills in the classroom across subject areas.



(e) Partnership grants for the establishment of teaching residency programs(1) In generalAn eligible partnership receiving a grant to carry out an effective teaching residency program shall carry out a program that includes all of the following activities:(A) Supporting a teaching residency program described in paragraph (2) for high-need subjects and areas, as determined by the needs of the high-need local educational agency in the partnership.

(B) Placing graduates of the teaching residency program in cohorts that facilitate professional collaboration, both among graduates of the teaching residency program and between such graduates and mentor teachers in the receiving school.

(C) Ensuring that teaching residents who participate in the teaching residency program receive—(i) effective preservice preparation as described in paragraph (2);

(ii) teacher mentoring;

(iii) support required through the induction program as the teaching residents enter the classroom as new teachers; and

(iv) the preparation described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of subsection (d)(2).



(2) Teaching residency programs(A) Establishment and designA teaching residency program under this paragraph shall be a program based upon models of successful teaching residencies that serves as a mechanism to prepare teachers for success in the high-need schools in the eligible partnership, and shall be designed to include the following characteristics of successful programs:(i) The integration of pedagogy, classroom practice, and teacher mentoring.

(ii) Engagement of teaching residents in rigorous graduate-level course work leading to a master’s degree while undertaking a guided teaching apprenticeship.

(iii) Experience and learning opportunities alongside a trained and experienced mentor teacher—(I) whose teaching shall complement the residency program so that classroom clinical practice is tightly aligned with coursework;

(II) who shall have extra responsibilities as a teacher leader of the teaching residency program, as a mentor for residents, and as a teacher coach during the induction program for new teachers, and for establishing, within the program, a learning community in which all individuals are expected to continually improve their capacity to advance student learning; and

(III) who may be relieved from teaching duties as a result of such additional responsibilities.


(iv) The establishment of clear criteria for the selection of mentor teachers based on measures of teacher effectiveness and the appropriate subject area knowledge. Evaluation of teacher effectiveness shall be based on, but not limited to, observations of the following:(I) Planning and preparation, including demonstrated knowledge of content, pedagogy, and assessment, including the use of formative and diagnostic assessments to improve student learning.

(II) Appropriate instruction that engages students with different learning styles.

(III) Collaboration with colleagues to improve instruction.

(IV) Analysis of gains in student learning, based on multiple measures that are valid and reliable and that, when feasible, may include valid, reliable, and objective measures of the influence of teachers on the rate of student academic progress.

(V) In the case of mentor candidates who will be mentoring new or prospective literacy and mathematics coaches or instructors, appropriate skills in the essential components of reading instruction, teacher training in literacy instructional strategies across core subject areas, and teacher training in mathematics instructional strategies, as appropriate.


(v) Grouping of teaching residents in cohorts to facilitate professional collaboration among such residents.

(vi) The development of admissions goals and priorities—(I) that are aligned with the hiring objectives of the local educational agency partnering with the program, as well as the instructional initiatives and curriculum of such agency, in exchange for a commitment by such agency to hire qualified graduates from the teaching residency program; and

(II) which may include consideration of applicants who reflect the communities in which they will teach as well as consideration of individuals from underrepresented populations in the teaching profession.


(vii) Support for residents, once the teaching residents are hired as teachers of record, through an induction program, professional development, and networking opportunities to support the residents through not less than the residents’ first two years of teaching.


(B) Selection of individuals as teacher residents(i) Eligible individualIn order to be eligible to be a teacher resident in a teaching residency program under this paragraph, an individual shall—(I) be a recent graduate of a four-year institution of higher education or a mid-career professional from outside the field of education possessing strong content knowledge or a record of professional accomplishment; and

(II) submit an application to the teaching residency program.


(ii) Selection criteriaAn eligible partnership carrying out a teaching residency program under this subsection shall establish criteria for the selection of eligible individuals to participate in the teaching residency program based on the following characteristics:(I) Strong content knowledge or record of accomplishment in the field or subject area to be taught.

(II) Strong verbal and written communication skills, which may be demonstrated by performance on appropriate tests.

(III) Other attributes linked to effective teaching, which may be determined by interviews or performance assessments, as specified by the eligible partnership.



(C) Stipends or salaries; applications; agreements; repayments(i) Stipends or salariesA teaching residency program under this subsection shall provide a one-year living stipend or salary to teaching residents during the teaching residency program.


(ii) Applications for stipends or salariesEach teacher residency candidate desiring a stipend or salary during the period of residency shall submit an application to the eligible partnership at such time, and containing such information and assurances, as the eligible partnership may require.


(iii) Agreements to serveEach application submitted under clause (ii) shall contain or be accompanied by an agreement that the applicant will—(I) serve as a full-time teacher for a total of not less than three academic years immediately after successfully completing the teaching residency program;

(II) fulfill the requirement under subclause (I) by teaching in a high-need school served by the high-need local educational agency in the eligible partnership and teach a subject or area that is designated as high need by the partnership;

(III) provide to the eligible partnership a certificate, from the chief administrative officer of the local educational agency in which the resident is employed, of the employment required in subclauses (I) and (II) at the beginning of, and upon completion of, each year or partial year of service;

(IV) meet the requirements to be a highly qualified teacher, as defined in section 9101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 7801], or section 602 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1401], when the applicant begins to fulfill the service obligation under this clause; and

(V) comply with the requirements set by the eligible partnership under clause (iv) if the applicant is unable or unwilling to complete the service obligation required by this clause.


(iv) Repayments(I) In generalA grantee carrying out a teaching residency program under this paragraph shall require a recipient of a stipend or salary under clause (i) who does not complete, or who notifies the partnership that the recipient intends not to complete, the service obligation required by clause (iii) to repay such stipend or salary to the eligible partnership, together with interest, at a rate specified by the partnership in the agreement, and in accordance with such other terms and conditions specified by the eligible partnership, as necessary.


(II) Other terms and conditionsAny other terms and conditions specified by the eligible partnership may include reasonable provisions for pro-rata repayment of the stipend or salary described in clause (i) or for deferral of a teaching resident’s service obligation required by clause (iii), on grounds of health, incapacitation, inability to secure employment in a school served by the eligible partnership, being called to active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States, or other extraordinary circumstances.


(III) Use of repaymentsAn eligible partnership shall use any repayment received under this clause to carry out additional activities that are consistent with the purposes of this subsection.






(f) Partnership grants for the development of leadership programs(1) In generalAn eligible partnership that receives a grant under this section may carry out an effective school leadership program, which may be carried out in partnership with a local educational agency located in a rural area and that shall include all of the following activities:(A) Preparing individuals enrolled or preparing to enroll in school leadership programs for careers as superintendents, principals, early childhood education program directors, or other school leaders (including individuals preparing to work in local educational agencies located in rural areas who may perform multiple duties in addition to the role of a school leader).

(B) Promoting strong leadership skills and, as applicable, techniques for school leaders to effectively—(i) create and maintain a data-driven, professional learning community within the leader’s school;

(ii) provide a climate conducive to the professional development of teachers, with a focus on improving student academic achievement and the development of effective instructional leadership skills;

(iii) understand the teaching and assessment skills needed to support successful classroom instruction and to use data to evaluate teacher instruction and drive teacher and student learning;

(iv) manage resources and school time to improve student academic achievement and ensure the school environment is safe;

(v) engage and involve parents, community members, the local educational agency, businesses, and other community leaders, to leverage additional resources to improve student academic achievement; and

(vi) understand how students learn and develop in order to increase academic achievement for all students.


(C) Ensuring that individuals who participate in the school leadership program receive—(i) effective preservice preparation as described in subparagraph (D);

(ii) mentoring; and

(iii) if applicable, full State certification or licensure to become a school leader.


(D) Developing and improving a sustained and high-quality preservice clinical education program to further develop the leadership skills of all prospective school leaders involved in the program. Such clinical education program shall do the following:(i) Incorporate year-long opportunities for enrichment, including—(I) clinical learning in high-need schools served by the high-need local educational agency or a local educational agency located in a rural area in the eligible partnership and identified by the eligible partnership; and

(II) closely supervised interaction between prospective school leaders and faculty, new and experienced teachers, and new and experienced school leaders, in such high-need schools.


(ii) Integrate pedagogy and practice and promote effective leadership skills, meeting the unique needs of urban, rural, or geographically isolated communities, as applicable.

(iii) Provide for mentoring of new school leaders.


(E) Creating an induction program for new school leaders.

(F) Developing and implementing effective mechanisms to ensure that the eligible partnership is able to recruit qualified individuals to become school leaders through the activities of the eligible partnership, which may include an emphasis on recruiting into school leadership professions—(i) individuals from underrepresented populations;

(ii) individuals to serve as superintendents, principals, or other school administrators in rural and geographically isolated communities and school leader shortage areas; and

(iii) mid-career professionals from other occupations, former military personnel, and recent college graduates with a record of academic distinction.



(2) Selection of individuals for the leadership programIn order to be eligible for the school leadership program under this subsection, an individual shall be enrolled in or preparing to enroll in an institution of higher education, and shall—(A) be a—(i) recent graduate of an institution of higher education;

(ii) mid-career professional from outside the field of education with strong content knowledge or a record of professional accomplishment;

(iii) current teacher who is interested in becoming a school leader; or

(iv) school leader who is interested in becoming a superintendent; and


(B) submit an application to the leadership program.



(g) Partnership with digital education content developerAn eligible partnership that receives a grant under this section may use grant funds provided to carry out the activities described in subsection (d) or (e), or both, to partner with a television public broadcast station, as defined in section 397(6) of title 47, or another entity that develops digital educational content, for the purpose of improving the quality of pre-baccalaureate teacher preparation programs or to enhance the quality of preservice training for prospective teachers.


(h) Evaluation and reportingThe Secretary shall—(1) evaluate the programs assisted under this section; and

(2) make publicly available a report detailing the Secretary’s evaluation of each such program.


(i) Consultation(1) In generalMembers of an eligible partnership that receives a grant under this section shall engage in regular consultation throughout the development and implementation of programs and activities carried out under this section.


(2) Regular communicationTo ensure timely and meaningful consultation as described in paragraph (1), regular communication shall occur among all members of the eligible partnership, including the high-need local educational agency. Such communication shall continue throughout the implementation of the grant and the assessment of programs and activities under this section.


(3) Written consentThe Secretary may approve changes in grant activities of a grant under this section only if the eligible partnership submits to the Secretary a written consent to such changes signed by all members of the eligible partnership.



(j) ConstructionNothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an eligible partnership from using grant funds to coordinate with the activities of eligible partnerships in other States or on a regional basis through Governors, State boards of education, State educational agencies, State agencies responsible for early childhood education, local educational agencies, or State agencies for higher education.


(k) Supplement, not supplantFunds made available under this section shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, other Federal, State, and local funds that would otherwise be expended to carry out activities under this section.


(Pub. L. 89–329, title II, § 202, as added Pub. L. 110–315, title II, § 201(2), Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3133; amended Pub. L. 111–39, title II, § 201(2), July 1, 2009, 123 Stat. 1936.)


References in TextThe Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (b)(4)(A), is Pub. L. 89–10, Apr. 11, 1965, 79 Stat. 27, which is classified generally to chapter 70 (§ 6301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6301 of this title and Tables.
The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(4)(A), is title VI of Pub. L. 91–230, Apr. 13, 1970, 84 Stat. 175, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1400 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1400 of this title and Tables.

Prior ProvisionsPrior section 202 of Pub. L. 89–329 was classified to section 1022 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 110–315.
A prior section 202 of Pub. L. 89–329 was classified to section 1022 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 104–208.
Another prior section 202 of Pub. L. 89–329 was classified to section 1022 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 96–374.

Amendments2009—Subsec. (b)(6)(E)(ii). Pub. L. 111–39, § 201(2)(A), substituted “section 1111(b)(1)” for “section 1111(b)(2)”.
Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 111–39, § 201(2)(B), struck out “pre-baccalaureate” before “preparation”.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 111–39, § 201(2)(C), substituted “the preparation” for “pre-baccalaureate preparation” in heading, added introductory provisions, and struck out former introductory provisions which read as follows: “An eligible partnership that receives a grant to carry out an effective program for the pre-baccalaureate preparation of teachers shall carry out a program that includes all of the following:”.
Subsec. (e)(2). Pub. L. 111–39, § 201(2)(D), in subpar. (A)(ii), substituted “leading to” for “to earn” and, in subpar. (C), struck out “one-year” before “teaching residency program” in cls. (i) and (iii)(I).
Subsec. (i)(3). Pub. L. 111–39, § 201(2)(E), substituted “consent to” for “consent of”.

Effective Date of 2009 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 111–39 effective as if enacted on the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–315 (Aug. 14, 2008), see section 3 of Pub. L. 111–39, set out as a note under section 1001 of this title.


