§ 803a. Project grants and contracts(a) Authorization; purposes; applicationThe Secretary is authorized to make grants to or contracts with institutions of higher education, or combinations of such institutions, to assist them in planning, developing, strengthening, improving, or carrying out programs or projects (1) for the preparation of graduate or professional students in the fields of city and regional planning and management, housing, and urban affairs, or (2) for research into, or development or demonstration of, improved methods of education for these professions. Such grants or contracts may include payment of all or part of the cost of programs or projects.


(b) Contents; use of payments(1) A grant or contract authorized by this section shall be made only upon application to the Secretary at such time or times and containing such information as he may prescribe, except that no such application shall be approved unless it—(A) sets forth programs, activities, research, or development for which a grant is authorized under this section;

(B) provides for such fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure proper disbursement of and accounting for Federal funds paid to the applicant under this subsection; and

(C) provides for making such reports, in such form and containing such information, as the Secretary may require to carry out his functions under this subsection, and for keeping such records and for affording such access thereto as the Secretary may find necessary to assure the correctness and verification of such reports.


(2) Payments under this section may be used, in accordance with regulations of the Secretary, and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in an application approved under paragraph (1), to pay part of the compensation of students employed in professions referred to in subsection (a)(1) of this section, except students employed in any branch of the Government of the United States, as part of a program for which a grant has been approved pursuant to this subsection.


(Pub. L. 88–560, title VIII, § 804, as added Pub. L. 93–383, title IV, § 402(c)(2), Aug. 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 692.)

Codification
Pub. L. 93–383, § 402, provided for amendments to title VIII of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1964. The amendments of the enumerated sections of such title VIII have been executed to comparable sections of title VIII of the Housing Act of 1964 as the probable intent of Congress.


