§ 6841. Evaluations(a) In generalEach eligible entity that receives a subgrant from a State educational agency under subpart 1 of this part shall provide such agency, at the conclusion of every second fiscal year during which the subgrant is received, with an evaluation, in a form prescribed by the agency, that includes—(1) a description of the programs and activities conducted by the entity with funds received under subpart 1 of this part during the two immediately preceding fiscal years;

(2) a description of the progress made by children in learning the English language and meeting challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards;

(3) the number and percentage of children in the programs and activities attaining English proficiency by the end of each school year, as determined by a valid and reliable assessment of English proficiency; and

(4) a description of the progress made by children in meeting challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards for each of the 2 years after such children are no longer receiving services under this part.


(b) Use of evaluationAn evaluation provided by an eligible entity under subsection (a) of this section shall be used by the entity and the State educational agency—(1) for improvement of programs and activities;

(2) to determine the effectiveness of programs and activities in assisting children who are limited English proficient to attain English proficiency (as measured consistent with subsection (d) of this section) and meet challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards; and

(3) in determining whether or not to continue funding for specific programs or activities.


(c) Evaluation componentsAn evaluation provided by an eligible entity under subsection (a) of this section shall—(1) provide an evaluation of children enrolled in a program or activity conducted by the entity using funds under subpart 1 of this part (including the percentage of children) who—(A) are making progress in attaining English proficiency, including the percentage of children who have achieved English proficiency;

(B) have transitioned into classrooms not tailored to limited English proficient children, and have a sufficient level of English proficiency to permit them to achieve in English and transition into classrooms not tailored to limited English proficient children;

(C) are meeting the same challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards as all children are expected to meet; and

(D) are not receiving waivers for the reading or language arts assessments under section 6311(b)(3)(C) of this title; and


(2) include such other information as the State educational agency may require.


(d) Evaluation measuresA State shall approve evaluation measures for use under subsection (c) of this section that are designed to assess—(1) the progress of children in attaining English proficiency, including a child’s level of comprehension, speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills in English;

(2) student attainment of challenging State student academic achievement standards on assessments described in section 6311(b)(3) of this title; and

(3) progress in meeting the annual measurable achievement objectives described in section 6842 of this title.


(e) Special rule for specially qualified agenciesEach specially qualified agency receiving a grant under this part shall provide the evaluations described in subsection (a) of this section to the Secretary subject to the same requirements as apply to eligible entities providing such evaluations to State educational agencies under such subsection.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title III, § 3121, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title III, § 301, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1701.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6841, Pub. L. 89–10, title III, § 3131, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3644, related to allotment and reallotment of funds, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110. See section 6761 of this title.
A prior section 3121 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 6831 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


