§ 6765. State activities
From funds made available under section 6762(a)(1) of this title, a State educational agency shall carry out activities and assist local efforts to carry out the purposes of this part, which may include the following activities:(1) Developing, or assisting applicants or recipients of funds under this subpart in the development and utilization of, innovative strategies for the delivery of specialized or rigorous academic courses and curricula through the use of technology, including distance learning technologies, and providing other technical assistance to such applicants or recipients throughout the State, with priority given to high-need local educational agencies.

(2) Establishing or supporting public-private initiatives (such as interest-free or reduced-cost loans) for the acquisition of educational technology for high-need local educational agencies and students attending schools served by such agencies.

(3) Assisting recipients of funds under this subpart in providing sustained and intensive, high-quality professional development based on a review of relevant research in the integration of advanced technologies, including emerging technologies, into curricula and instruction and in using those technologies to create new learning environments, including training in the use of technology to—(A) access data and resources to develop curricula and instructional materials;

(B) enable teachers—(i) to use the Internet and other technology to communicate with parents, other teachers, principals, and administrators; and

(ii) to retrieve Internet-based learning resources; and


(C) lead to improvements in classroom instruction in the core academic subjects, that effectively prepare students to meet challenging State academic content standards and student academic achievement standards.


(4) Assisting recipients of funds under this subpart in providing all students (including students with disabilities and students with limited English proficiency) and teachers with access to educational technology.

(5) Developing performance measurement systems to determine the effectiveness of educational technology programs funded under this subpart, particularly in determining the extent to which activities funded under this subpart are effective in integrating technology into curricula and instruction, increasing the ability of teachers to teach, and enabling students to meet challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards.

(6) Collaborating with other State educational agencies on distance learning, including making specialized or rigorous academic courses and curricula available to students in areas that would not otherwise have access to such courses and curricula.

(Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2415, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title II, § 201, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1679.)
