“Sec. 2207. (a) The Secretary of State shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations not later than January 5, 2004 and prior to the initial obligation of funds appropriated by this Act under the heading ‘Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund’ [117 Stat. 1225] a report on the proposed uses of all funds under this heading on a project-by-project basis, for which the obligation of funds is anticipated during the 3 month period from such date, including estimates by the CPA of the costs required to complete each such project: Provided, That up to 20 percent of funds appropriated under such heading may be obligated before the submission of the report: Provided further, That in addition such report shall include the following:“(1) The use of all funds on a project-by-project basis for which funds appropriated under such heading were obligated prior to the submission of the report, including estimates by the CPA of the costs required to complete each project.

“(2) The distribution of duties and responsibilities regarding such projects among the agencies of the United States Government.

“(3) Revenues to the CPA attributable to or consisting of funds provided by foreign governments and international organizations, disaggregated by donor, any obligations or expenditures of such revenues, and the purpose of such obligations and expenditures.

“(4) Revenues to the CPA attributable to or consisting of foreign assets seized or frozen, any obligations or expenditures of such revenues, and the purpose of such obligations and expenditures.


“(b) Any proposed new projects and increases in funding of ongoing projects shall be reported to the Committees on Appropriations in accordance with regular notification procedures.

“(c) The report required by subsection (a) shall be updated and submitted to the Committees on Appropriations every 3 months and shall include information on how the estimates and assumptions contained in previous reports have changed.

“(d) The requirements of this section shall expire on October 1, 2007.

