§ 1532. Program authorization(a) Grant eligibilityTo be eligible to receive an initial grant or a renewal grant under this part, a coalition shall meet each of the following criteria:(1) ApplicationThe coalition shall submit an application to the Administrator in accordance with section 1533(a)(2) of this title.


(2) Major sector involvement(A) In generalThe coalition shall consist of 1 or more representatives of each of the following categories:(i) Youth.

(ii) Parents.

(iii) Businesses.

(iv) The media.

(v) Schools.

(vi) Organizations serving youth.

(vii) Law enforcement.

(viii) Religious or fraternal organizations.

(ix) Civic and volunteer groups.

(x) Health care professionals.

(xi) State, local, or tribal governmental agencies with expertise in the field of substance abuse (including, if applicable, the State authority with primary authority for substance abuse).

(xii) Other organizations involved in reducing substance abuse.


(B) Elected officialsIf feasible, in addition to representatives from the categories listed in subparagraph (A), the coalition shall have an elected official (or a representative of an elected official) from—(i) the Federal Government; and

(ii) the government of the appropriate State and political subdivision thereof or the governing body or an Indian tribe (as that term is defined in section 450b(e) of title 25).


(C) RepresentationAn individual who is a member of the coalition may serve on the coalition as a representative of not more than 1 category listed under subparagraph (A).



(3) CommitmentThe coalition shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Administrator—(A) that the representatives of the coalition have worked together on substance abuse reduction initiatives, which, at a minimum, includes initiatives that target drugs referenced in section 1523(9)(A) of this title, for a period of not less than 6 months, acting through entities such as task forces, subcommittees, or community boards; and

(B) substantial participation from volunteer leaders in the community involved (especially in cooperation with individuals involved with youth such as parents, teachers, coaches, youth workers, and members of the clergy).


(4) Mission and strategiesThe coalition shall, with respect to the community involved—(A) have as its principal mission the reduction of substance abuse, which, at a minimum, includes the use and abuse of drugs referenced in section 1523(9)(A) of this title, in a comprehensive and long-term manner, with a primary focus on youth in the community;

(B) describe and document the nature and extent of the substance abuse problem, which, at a minimum, includes the use and abuse of drugs referenced in section 1523(9)(A) of this title, in the community;

(C)(i) provide a description of substance abuse prevention and treatment programs and activities, which, at a minimum, includes programs and activities relating to the use and abuse of drugs referenced in section 1523(9)(A) of this title, in existence at the time of the grant application; and

(ii) identify substance abuse programs and service gaps, which, at a minimum, includes programs and gaps relating to the use and abuse of drugs referenced in section 1523(9)(A) of this title, in the community;


(D) develop a strategic plan to reduce substance abuse among youth, which, at a minimum, includes the use and abuse of drugs referenced in section 1523(9)(A) of this title, in a comprehensive and long-term fashion; and

(E) work to develop a consensus regarding the priorities of the community to combat substance abuse among youth, which, at a minimum, includes the use and abuse of drugs referenced in section 1523(9)(A) of this title.


(5) SustainabilityThe coalition shall demonstrate that the coalition is an ongoing concern by demonstrating that the coalition—(A) is—(i)(I) a nonprofit organization; or

(II) an entity that the Administrator determines to be appropriate; or


(ii) part of, or is associated with, an established legal entity;


(B) receives financial support (including, in the discretion of the Administrator, in-kind contributions) from non-Federal sources; and

(C) has a strategy to solicit substantial financial support from non-Federal sources to ensure that the coalition and the programs operated by the coalition are self-sustaining.


(6) AccountabilityThe coalition shall—(A) establish a system to measure and report outcomes—(i) consistent with common indicators and evaluation protocols established by the Administrator; and

(ii) approved by the Administrator;


(B) conduct—(i) for an initial grant under this part, an initial benchmark survey of drug use among youth (or use local surveys or performance measures available or accessible in the community at the time of the grant application); and

(ii) biennial surveys (or incorporate local surveys in existence at the time of the evaluation) to measure the progress and effectiveness of the coalition; and


(C) provide assurances that the entity conducting an evaluation under this paragraph, or from which the coalition receives information, has experience—(i) in gathering data related to substance abuse among youth; or

(ii) in evaluating the effectiveness of community anti-drug coalitions.



(7) Additional criteriaThe Director shall not impose any eligibility criteria on new applicants or renewal grantees not provided in this subchapter.



(b) Grant amounts(1) In general(A) Grants(i) In generalSubject to clause (iv), for a fiscal year, the Administrator may grant to an eligible coalition under this paragraph, an amount not to exceed the amount of non-Federal funds raised by the coalition, including in-kind contributions, for that fiscal year.


(ii) Suspension of grantsIf such grant recipient fails to continue to meet the criteria specified in subsection (a) of this section, the Administrator may suspend the grant, after providing written notice to the grant recipient and an opportunity to appeal.


(iii) Renewal grantsSubject to clause (iv), the Administrator may award a renewal grant to a grant recipient under this subparagraph for each fiscal year following the fiscal year for which an initial grant is awarded, in an amount not to exceed the amount of non-Federal funds raised by the coalition, including in-kind contributions, for that fiscal year, during the 4-year period following the period of the initial grant.


(iv) LimitationThe amount of a grant award under this subparagraph may not exceed $125,000 for a fiscal year.



(B) Coalition awards(i) In generalExcept as provided in clause (ii), the Administrator may, with respect to a community, make a grant to 1 eligible coalition that represents that community.


(ii) ExceptionThe Administrator may make a grant to more than 1 eligible coalition that represents a community if—(I) the eligible coalitions demonstrate that the coalitions are collaborating with one another; and

(II) each of the coalitions has independently met the requirements set forth in subsection (a) of this section.




(2) Rural coalition grants(A) In general(i) In generalIn addition to awarding grants under paragraph (1), to stimulate the development of coalitions in sparsely populated and rural areas, the Administrator, in consultation with the Advisory Commission, may award a grant in accordance with this section to a coalition that represents a county with a population that does not exceed 30,000 individuals. In awarding a grant under this paragraph, the Administrator may waive any requirement under subsection (a) of this section if the Administrator considers that waiver to be appropriate.


(ii) Matching requirementSubject to subparagraph (C), for a fiscal year, the Administrator may grant to an eligible coalition under this paragraph, an amount not to exceed the amount of non-Federal funds raised by the coalition, including in-kind contributions, for that fiscal year.


(iii) Suspension of grantsIf such grant recipient fails to continue to meet any criteria specified in subsection (a) of this section that has not been waived by the Administrator pursuant to clause (i), the Administrator may suspend the grant, after providing written notice to the grant recipient and an opportunity to appeal.



(B) Renewal grantsThe Administrator may award a renewal grant to an eligible coalition that is a grant recipient under this paragraph for each fiscal year following the fiscal year for which an initial grant is awarded, in an amount not to exceed the amount of non-Federal funds raised by the coalition, including in-kind contributions, during the 4-year period following the period of the initial grant.


(C) Limitations(i) AmountThe amount of a grant award under this paragraph shall not exceed $125,000 for a fiscal year.


(ii) AwardsWith respect to a county referred to in subparagraph (A), the Administrator may award a grant under this section to not more than 1 eligible coalition that represents the county.




(3) Additional grants(A) In generalSubject to subparagraph (F), the Administrator may award an additional grant under this paragraph to an eligible coalition awarded a grant under paragraph (1) or (2) for any first fiscal year after the end of the 4-year period following the period of the initial grant under paragraph (1) or (2), as the case may be.


(B) Scope of grantsA coalition awarded a grant under paragraph (1) or (2), including a renewal grant under such paragraph, may not be awarded another grant under such paragraph, and is eligible for an additional grant under this section only under this paragraph.


(C) No priority for applicationsThe Administrator may not afford a higher priority in the award of an additional grant under this paragraph than the Administrator would afford the applicant for the grant if the applicant were submitting an application for an initial grant under paragraph (1) or (2) rather than an application for a grant under this paragraph.


(D) Renewal grantsSubject to subparagraph (F), the Administrator may award a renewal grant to a grant recipient under this paragraph for each of the fiscal years of the 4-fiscal-year period following the fiscal year for which the initial additional grant under subparagraph (A) is awarded in an amount not to exceed amounts as follows:(i) For the first and second fiscal years of that 4-fiscal-year period, the amount equal to 80 percent of the non-Federal funds, including in-kind contributions, raised by the coalition for the applicable fiscal year.

(ii) For the third and fourth fiscal years of that 4-fiscal-year period, the amount equal to 67 percent of the non-Federal funds, including in-kind contributions, raised by the coalition for the applicable fiscal year.


(E) SuspensionIf a grant recipient under this paragraph fails to continue to meet the criteria specified in subsection (a) of this section, the Administrator may suspend the grant, after providing written notice to the grant recipient and an opportunity to appeal.


(F) LimitationThe amount of a grant award under this paragraph may not exceed $125,000 for a fiscal year.



(4) Process for suspensionA grantee shall not be suspended or terminated under paragraph (1)(A)(ii), (2)(A)(iii), or (3)(E) unless that grantee is afforded a fair, timely, and independent appeal prior to such suspension or termination.



(c) Treatment of funds for coalitions representing certain organizationsFunds appropriated for the substance abuse activities of a coalition that includes a representative of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Indian Health Service, or a tribal government agency with expertise in the field of substance abuse may be counted as non-Federal funds raised by the coalition for purposes of this section.


(d) Priority in awarding grantsIn awarding grants under subsection (b)(1)(A)(i) of this section, priority shall be given to a coalition serving economically disadvantaged areas.


(Pub. L. 100–690, title I, § 1032, as added Pub. L. 105–20, § 2(a)(2), June 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 227; amended Pub. L. 107–82, § 1(d), (g), (h), Dec. 14, 2001, 115 Stat. 818, 819; Pub. L. 109–469, title VIII, §§ 802(a), 803, 804, Dec. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 3535.)

Codification
Pub. L. 109–469, §§ 802(a), 803, 804, which directed amendment of section 1032 of the “Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997”, were executed to this section, which is section 1032 of the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. See 2006 Amendment notes below.

Amendments2006—Subsec. (a)(7). Pub. L. 109–469, § 804, added par. (7). See Codification note above.
Subsec. (b)(1)(A)(iv), (2)(C)(i), (3)(F). Pub. L. 109–469, § 803, substituted “$125,000” for “$100,000”. See Codification note above.
Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 109–469, § 802(a), added par. (4). See Codification note above.
2001—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 107–82, § 1(d), added par. (3).
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 107–82, § 1(g), added subsec. (c).
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 107–82, § 1(h), added subsec. (d).

Report to CongressPub. L. 109–469, title VIII, § 802(b), Dec. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 3535, provided that: “Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 29, 2006], the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy shall submit to Congress a report detailing the appeals process required by section 1032(b)(4) of the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997 [probably means 21 U.S.C. 1532(b)(4)], as added by subsection (a) [see 2006 Amendments note above].”



