§ 3152. Identification of eligible providers of training services(a) Eligibility(1) In generalExcept as provided in subsection (h), the Governor, after consultation with the State board, shall establish criteria, information requirements, and procedures regarding the eligibility of providers of training services to receive funds provided under section 3173(b) of this title for the provision of training services in local areas in the State.


(2) ProvidersSubject to the provisions of this section, to be eligible to receive those funds for the provision of training services, the provider shall be—(A) an institution of higher education that provides a program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential;

(B) an entity that carries out programs registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the “National Apprenticeship Act”; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.); or

(C) another public or private provider of a program of training services, which may include joint labor-management organizations, and eligible providers of adult education and literacy activities under subchapter II if such activities are provided in combination with occupational skills training.


(3) Inclusion in list of eligible providersA provider described in subparagraph (A) or (C) of paragraph (2) shall comply with the criteria, information requirements, and procedures established under this section to be included on the list of eligible providers of training services described in subsection (d). A provider described in paragraph (2)(B) shall be included and maintained on the list of eligible providers of training services described in subsection (d) for so long as the corresponding program of the provider remains registered as described in paragraph (2)(B).



(b) Criteria and information requirements(1) State criteriaIn establishing criteria pursuant to subsection (a), the Governor shall take into account each of the following:(A) The performance of providers of training services with respect to—(i) the performance accountability measures and other matters for which information is required under paragraph (2); and

(ii) other appropriate measures of performance outcomes determined by the Governor for those participants receiving training services under this part (taking into consideration the characteristics of the population served and relevant economic conditions), and the outcomes of the program through which those training services were provided for students in general with respect to employment and earnings as defined under section 3141(b)(2) of this title.


(B) The need to ensure access to training services throughout the State, including in rural areas, and through the use of technology.

(C) Information reported to State agencies with respect to Federal and State programs involving training services (other than the program carried out under this part), including one-stop partner programs.

(D) The degree to which the training programs of such providers relate to in-demand industry sectors and occupations in the State.

(E) The requirements for State licensing of providers of training services, and the licensing status of providers of training services if applicable.

(F) Ways in which the criteria can encourage, to the extent practicable, the providers to use industry-recognized certificates or certifications.

(G) The ability of the providers to offer programs that lead to recognized postsecondary credentials.

(H) The quality of a program of training services, including a program of training services that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential.

(I) The ability of the providers to provide training services to individuals who are employed and individuals with barriers to employment.

(J) Such other factors as the Governor determines are appropriate to ensure—(i) the accountability of the providers;

(ii) that the one-stop centers in the State will ensure that such providers meet the needs of local employers and participants;

(iii) the informed choice of participants among training services providers; and

(iv) that the collection of information required to demonstrate compliance with the criteria is not unduly burdensome or costly to providers.



(2) State information requirementsThe information requirements established by the Governor shall require that a provider of training services submit appropriate, accurate, and timely information to the State, to enable the State to carry out subsection (d), with respect to participants receiving training services under this part in the applicable program, including—(A) information on the performance of the provider with respect to the performance accountability measures described in section 3141 of this title for such participants (taking into consideration the characteristics of the population served and relevant economic conditions), and information specifying the percentage of such participants who entered unsubsidized employment in an occupation related to the program, to the extent practicable;

(B) information on recognized postsecondary credentials received by such participants;

(C) information on cost of attendance, including costs of tuition and fees, for participants in the program;

(D) information on the program completion rate for such participants; and

(E) information on the criteria described in paragraph (1).


(3) Local criteria and information requirementsA local board in the State may establish criteria and information requirements in addition to the criteria and information requirements established by the Governor, or may require higher levels of performance than required for the criteria established by the Governor, for purposes of determining the eligibility of providers of training services to receive funds described in subsection (a) for the provision of training services in the local area involved.


(4) Criteria and information requirements to establish initial eligibility(A) PurposeThe purpose of this paragraph is to enable the providers of programs carried out under subpart 3 to offer the highest quality training services and be responsive to in-demand and emerging industries by providing training services for those industries.


(B) Initial eligibilityProviders may seek initial eligibility under this paragraph as providers of training services and may receive that initial eligibility for only 1 fiscal year for a particular program. The criteria and information requirements established by the Governor under this paragraph shall require that a provider who has not previously been an eligible provider of training services under this section (or section 122 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [29 U.S.C. 2842], as in effect on the day before July 22, 2014) provide the information described in subparagraph (C).


(C) InformationThe provider shall provide verifiable program-specific performance information based on criteria established by the State as described in subparagraph (D) that supports the provider’s ability to serve participants under this part.


(D) CriteriaThe criteria described in subparagraph (C) shall include at least—(i) a factor related to indicators described in section 3141 of this title;

(ii) a factor concerning whether the provider is in a partnership with business;

(iii) other factors that indicate high-quality training services, including the factor described in paragraph (1)(H); and

(iv) a factor concerning alignment of the training services with in-demand industry sectors and occupations, to the extent practicable.


(E) ProvisionThe provider shall provide the information described in subparagraph (C) to the Governor and the local board in a manner that will permit the Governor and the local board to make a decision on inclusion of the provider on the list of eligible providers described in subsection (d).


(F) LimitationA provider that receives initial eligibility under this paragraph for a program shall be subject to the requirements under subsection (c) for that program after such initial eligibility expires.




(c) Procedures(1) Application proceduresThe procedures established under subsection (a) shall identify the application process for a provider of training services to become eligible to receive funds provided under section 3173(b) of this title for the provision of training services. The procedures shall identify the respective roles of the State and local areas in receiving and reviewing the applications and in making determinations of such eligibility based on the criteria, information, and procedures established under this section. The procedures shall also establish a process for a provider of training services to appeal a denial or termination of eligibility under this section that includes an opportunity for a hearing and prescribes appropriate time limits to ensure prompt resolution of the appeal.


(2) Renewal proceduresThe procedures established by the Governor shall also provide for biennial review and renewal of eligibility under this section for providers of training services.



(d) List and information to assist participants in choosing providers(1) In generalIn order to facilitate and assist participants in choosing employment and training activities and in choosing providers of training services, the Governor shall ensure that an appropriate list of providers determined to be eligible under this section to offer a program in the State (and, as appropriate, in a local area), accompanied by information identifying the recognized postsecondary credential offered by the provider and other appropriate information, is prepared. The list shall be provided to the local boards in the State, and made available to such participants and to members of the public through the one-stop delivery system in the State.


(2) Accompanying informationThe accompanying information shall—(A) with respect to providers described in subparagraphs (A) and (C) of subsection (a)(2), consist of information provided by such providers, disaggregated by local areas served, as applicable, in accordance with subsection (b);

(B) with respect to providers described in subsection (b)(4), consist of information provided by such providers in accordance with subsection (b)(4); and

(C) such other information as the Governor determines to be appropriate.


(3) AvailabilityThe list and the accompanying information shall be made available to such participants and to members of the public through the one-stop delivery system in the State, in a manner that does not reveal personally identifiable information about an individual participant.


(4) LimitationIn carrying out the requirements of this subsection, no personally identifiable information regarding a student, including a Social Security number, student identification number, or other identifier, may be disclosed without the prior written consent of the parent or student in compliance with section 1232g of title 20.



(e) Opportunity to submit commentsIn establishing, under this section, criteria, information requirements, procedures, and the list of eligible providers described in subsection (d), the Governor shall provide an opportunity for interested members of the public to make recommendations and submit comments regarding such criteria, information requirements, procedures, and list.


(f) Enforcement(1) In generalThe procedures established under this section shall provide the following:(A) Intentionally supplying inaccurate informationUpon a determination, by an individual or entity specified in the procedures, that a provider of training services, or individual providing information on behalf of the provider, violated this section (or section 122 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [29 U.S.C. 2842], as in effect on the day before July 22, 2014) by intentionally supplying inaccurate information under this section, the eligibility of such provider to receive funds under subpart 3 shall be terminated for a period of time that is not less than 2 years.


(B) Substantial violationsUpon a determination, by an individual or entity specified in the procedures, that a provider of training services substantially violated any requirement under this subchapter (or title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.], as in effect on the day before July 22, 2014), the eligibility of such provider to receive funds under subpart 3 for the program involved shall be terminated for a period of not less than 2 years.


(C) RepaymentA provider of training services whose eligibility is terminated under subparagraph (A) or (B) shall be liable for the repayment of funds received under chapter 5 of subtitle B of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [29 U.S.C. 2861 et seq.], as in effect on the day before July 22, 2014, or subpart 3 of this part during a period of violation described in such subparagraph.



(2) ConstructionParagraph (1) shall be construed to provide remedies and penalties that supplement, but shall not supplant, civil and criminal remedies and penalties specified in other provisions of law.



(g) Agreements with other StatesStates may enter into agreements, on a reciprocal basis, to permit eligible providers of training services to accept individual training accounts provided in another State.


(h) On-the-job training, customized training, incumbent worker training, and other training exceptions(1) In generalProviders of on-the-job training, customized training, incumbent worker training, internships, and paid or unpaid work experience opportunities, or transitional employment shall not be subject to the requirements of subsections (a) through (f).


(2) Collection and dissemination of informationA one-stop operator in a local area shall collect such performance information from providers of on-the-job training, customized training, incumbent worker training, internships, paid or unpaid work experience opportunities, and transitional employment as the Governor may require, and use the information to determine whether the providers meet such performance criteria as the Governor may require. The one-stop operator shall disseminate information identifying such providers that meet the criteria as eligible providers, and the performance information, through the one-stop delivery system. Providers determined to meet the criteria shall be considered to be identified as eligible providers of training services.



(i) Transition period for implementationThe Governor and local boards shall implement the requirements of this section not later than 12 months after July 22, 2014. In order to facilitate early implementation of this section, the Governor may establish transition procedures under which providers eligible to provide training services under chapter 5 of subtitle B of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [29 U.S.C. 2861 et seq.], as such chapter was in effect on the day before July 22, 2014, may continue to be eligible to provide such services until December 31, 2015, or until such earlier date as the Governor determines to be appropriate.


(Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 122, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1492.)


References in TextThe National Apprenticeship Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(B), is act Aug. 16, 1937, ch. 663, 50 Stat. 664, which is classified generally to chapter 4C (§ 50 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 50 of this title and Tables.
The Workforce Investment Act of 1998, referred to in subsecs. (f)(1)(B), (C), and (i), is Pub. L. 105–220, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 936, and was repealed by Pub. L. 113–128, title V, §§ 506, 511(a), July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1703, 1705, effective July 1, 2015. Title I of the Act was classified principally to chapter 30 (§ 2801 et seq.) of this title. Chapter 5 of subtitle B of title I of the Act was classified generally to part E (§ 2861 et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 30 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Effective DateSection effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 [probably July 1, 2015], see section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128, set out as a note under section 3101 of this title.


