§ 9562. Commissioner for Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance(a) In generalThe National Center for Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance shall be headed by a Commissioner for Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance (in this part referred to as the “Evaluation and Regional Assistance Commissioner”) who is highly qualified and has demonstrated a capacity to carry out the mission of the Center and shall—(1) conduct evaluations pursuant to section 9563 of this title;

(2) widely disseminate information on scientifically valid research, statistics, and evaluation on education, particularly to State educational agencies and local educational agencies, to institutions of higher education, to the public, the media, voluntary organizations, professional associations, and other constituencies, especially with respect to information relating to, at a minimum—(A) the core academic areas of reading, mathematics, and science;

(B) closing the achievement gap between high-performing students and low-performing students;

(C) educational practices that improve academic achievement and promote learning;

(D) education technology, including software; and

(E) those topics covered by the Educational Resources Information Center Clearinghouses (established under section 941(f) of the Educational Research, Development, Dissemination, and Improvement Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 6041(f)) (as such provision was in effect on the day before November 5, 2002);


(3) make such information accessible in a user-friendly, timely, and efficient manner (including through use of a searchable Internet-based online database that shall include all topics covered in paragraph (2)(E)) to schools, institutions of higher education, educators (including early childhood educators), parents, administrators, policymakers, researchers, public and private entities (including providers of early childhood services), entities responsible for carrying out technical assistance through the Department, and the general public;

(4) support the regional educational laboratories in conducting applied research, the development and dissemination of educational research, products and processes, the provision of technical assistance, and other activities to serve the educational needs of such laboratories’ regions;

(5) manage the National Library of Education described in subsection (d) of this section, and other sources of digital information on education research;

(6) assist the Director in the preparation of a biennial report, described in section 9519 of this title; and

(7) award a contract for a prekindergarten through grade 12 mathematics and science teacher clearinghouse.


(b) Additional dutiesIn carrying out subsection (a) of this section, the Evaluation and Regional Assistance Commissioner shall—(1) ensure that information disseminated under this section is provided in a cost-effective, nonduplicative manner that includes the most current research findings, which may include through the continuation of individual clearinghouses authorized under the Educational Research, Development, Dissemination, and Improvement Act of 1994 (title IX of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act; 20 U.S.C. 6001 et seq.) (as such Act existed on the day before November 5, 2002);

(2) describe prominently the type of scientific evidence that is used to support the findings that are disseminated;

(3) explain clearly the scientifically appropriate and inappropriate uses of—(A) the findings that are disseminated; and

(B) the types of evidence used to support those findings; and


(4) respond, as appropriate, to inquiries from schools, educators, parents, administrators, policymakers, researchers, public and private entities, and entities responsible for carrying out technical assistance.


(c) ContinuationThe Director shall continue awards for the support of the Educational Resources Information Center Clearinghouses and contracts for regional educational laboratories (established under subsections (f) and (h) of section 941 of the Educational Research, Development, Dissemination, and Improvement Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 6041(f) and (h)) (as such awards were in effect on the day before November 5, 2002)) for the duration of those awards, in accordance with the terms and agreements of such awards.


(d) National Library of Education(1) EstablishmentThere is established within the National Center for Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance a National Library of Education that shall—(A) be headed by an individual who is highly qualified in library science;

(B) collect and archive information;

(C) provide a central location within the Federal Government for information about education;

(D) provide comprehensive reference services on matters related to education to employees of the Department of Education and its contractors and grantees, other Federal employees, and members of the public; and

(E) promote greater cooperation and resource sharing among providers and repositories of education information in the United States.


(2) InformationThe information collected and archived by the National Library of Education shall include—(A) products and publications developed through, or supported by, the Institute; and

(B) other relevant and useful education-related research, statistics, and evaluation materials and other information, projects, and publications that are—(i) consistent with—(I) scientifically valid research; or

(II) the priorities and mission of the Institute; and


(ii) developed by the Department, other Federal agencies, or entities (including entities supported under subchapter II of this chapter and the Educational Resources Information Center Clearinghouses (established under section 941(f) of the Educational Research, Development, Dissemination, and Improvement Act of 1994 (20 U.S.C. 6041(f)) (as such provision was in effect on the day before November 5, 2002))).11 So in original. The third closing parenthesis probably should not appear.




(Pub. L. 107–279, title I, § 172, Nov. 5, 2002, 116 Stat. 1962.)


References in TextThe Educational Research, Development, Dissemination, and Improvement Act of 1994 (as such Act existed on the day before November 5, 2002), referred to in subsecs. (a)(1)(E), (b)(1), (c), and (d)(2)(B)(ii), is title IX of Pub. L. 103–227, Mar. 31, 1994, 108 Stat. 212, as amended, which was classified principally to subchapter IX (§ 6001 et seq.) of chapter 68 of this title and was substantially repealed by Pub. L. 107–279, title IV, § 403(2), Nov. 5, 2002, 116 Stat. 1985. Section 941 of the Act was classified to section 6041 of this title prior to repeal. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 6001 of this title and Tables.


