§ 3991. Purpose
It is the purpose of this part to supplement State and local resources to—(1) improve the quality of instruction in the fields of mathematics and science in elementary and secondary schools;

(2) furnish additional resources and support for the acquisition of equipment, and instructional and reference materials and improvement of laboratory facilities in elementary and secondary schools; and

(3) encourage partnerships in science and mathematics education between the business community, museums, libraries, professional mathematics and scientific associations, private nonprofit organizations, appropriate State agencies and elementary and secondary schools.

(Pub. L. 98–377, title III, § 321, as added Pub. L. 100–418, title VI, § 6031(a)(2), Aug. 23, 1988, 102 Stat. 1479.)

Clubs for Boys and Girls Interested in Science; Authorization of Appropriations; Purposes; Personnel and FacilitiesPub. L. 85–875, Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1700, provided: 
“That in order to strengthen future scientific accomplishment in our Nation by assisting in the development of a body of boys and girls with a special interest in science, there is hereby authorized to be appropriated for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1959, and for each fiscal year thereafter, such sums, not in excess of $50,000, as may be necessary to enable the Commissioner of Education [now Secretary of Education] to encourage, foster, and assist in the establishment in localities throughout the Nation of clubs which are composed of boys and girls who have an especial interest in science.
“Sec. 2. (a) The Commissioner of Education [now Secretary of Education] shall carry out his duties under the first section with a view to the ultimate chartering by the Congress of a Corporation, similar to the Future Farmers of America, which will seek to—“(1) develop an interest in science on the part of the young people of America,

“(2) provide an opportunity for the exchange of scientific information and ideas among members of the clubs,

“(3) encourage the promotion of science fairs at which members of the clubs may display their scientific works and projects, and

“(4) develop an awareness of the satisfactions to be derived through a career devoted to science.


“(b) The Commissioner of Education [now Secretary of Education] may utilize any of the personnel and facilities of the Office of Education [now Department of Education] in carrying out this Act.”

