§ 6491. Evaluations(a) National assessment of subchapter I(1) In generalThe Secretary shall conduct a national assessment of the programs assisted under this subchapter and the impact of this subchapter on States, local educational agencies, schools, and students.


(2) Issues to be examinedIn conducting the assessment under this subsection, the Secretary shall examine, at a minimum, the following:(A) The implementation of programs assisted under this subchapter and the impact of such implementation on increasing student academic achievement (particularly in schools with high concentrations of children living in poverty), relative to the goal of all students reaching the proficient level of achievement based on State academic assessments, challenging State academic content standards, and challenging State student academic achievement standards under section 6311 of this title.

(B) The types of programs and services that have demonstrated the greatest likelihood of helping students reach the proficient and advanced levels of achievement based on State student academic achievement standards and State academic content standards.

(C) The implementation of State academic standards, assessments, and accountability systems developed under this subchapter, including—(i) the time and cost required for the development of academic assessments for students in grades 3 through 8;

(ii) how well such State assessments meet the requirements for assessments described in this subchapter; and

(iii) the impact of such standards, assessments, and accountability systems on educational programs and instruction at the local level.


(D) Each State’s definition of adequate yearly progress, including—(i) the impact of applying this definition to schools, local educational agencies, and the State;

(ii) the number of schools and local educational agencies not meeting this definition; and

(iii) the changes in the identification of schools in need of improvement as a result of such definition.


(E) How schools, local educational agencies, and States have—(i) publicized and disseminated the local educational agency report cards required under section 6311(h)(2) of this title to teachers, school staff, students, parents, and the community;

(ii) used funds made available under this subchapter to provide preschool and family literacy services and the impact of these services on students’ school readiness;

(iii) implemented the provisions of section 6318 of this title and afforded parents meaningful opportunities to be involved in the education of their children;

(iv) used Federal, State, and local educational agency funds and resources to support schools and provide technical assistance to improve the achievement of students in low-performing schools, including the impact of the technical assistance on such achievement; and

(v) used State educational agency and local educational agency funds and resources to help schools in which 50 percent or more of the students are from families with incomes below the poverty line meet the requirement described in section 6319 of this title of having all teachers highly qualified not later than the end of the 2005–2006 school year.


(F) The implementation of schoolwide programs and targeted assistance programs under this subchapter and the impact of such programs on improving student academic achievement, including the extent to which schools meet the requirements of such programs.

(G) The extent to which varying models of comprehensive school reform are funded and implemented under this subchapter, and the effect of the implementation of such models on improving achievement of disadvantaged students.

(H) The costs as compared to the benefits of the activities assisted under this subchapter.

(I) The extent to which actions authorized under section 6316 of this title are implemented by State educational agencies and local educational agencies to improve the academic achievement of students in low-performing schools, and the effectiveness of the implementation of such actions, including the following:(i) The number of schools identified for school improvement and how many years the schools remain in this status.

(ii) The types of support provided by the State educational agencies and local educational agencies to schools and local educational agencies respectively identified as in need of improvement, and the impact of such support on student achievement.

(iii) The number of parents who take advantage of the public school choice provisions of this subchapter, the costs (including transportation costs) associated with implementing these provisions, the implementation of these provisions, and the impact of these provisions (including the impact of attending another school) on student achievement.

(iv) The number of parents who choose to take advantage of the supplemental educational services option, the criteria used by the States to determine the quality of providers, the kinds of services that are available and utilized, the costs associated with implementing this option, and the impact of receiving supplemental educational services on student achievement.

(v) The implementation and impact of actions that are taken with regard to schools and local educational agencies identified for corrective action and restructuring.


(J) The extent to which State and local fiscal accounting requirements under this subchapter affect the flexibility of schoolwide programs.

(K) The implementation and impact of the professional development activities assisted under this subchapter and subchapter II of this chapter on instruction, student academic achievement, and teacher qualifications.

(L) The extent to which the assistance made available under this subchapter, including funds under section 6302 of this title, is targeted to disadvantaged students, schools, and local educational agencies with the greatest need.

(M) The effectiveness of Federal administration assistance made available under this subchapter, including monitoring and technical assistance.

(N) The academic achievement of the groups of students described in section 6311(b)(2)(C)(v)(II) of this title.

(O) Such other issues as the Secretary considers appropriate.


(3) Sources of informationIn conducting the assessment under this subsection, the Secretary shall use information from a variety of sources, including the National Assessment of Educational Progress (carried out under section 9622 of this title), State evaluations, and other research studies.


(4) CoordinationIn carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall—(A) coordinate the national assessment under this subsection with the longitudinal study described in subsection (c) of this section; and

(B) ensure that the independent review panel described in subsection (d) of this section participates in conducting the national assessment under this subsection, including planning for and reviewing the assessment.


(5) Developmentally appropriate measuresIn conducting the national assessment under this subsection, the Secretary shall use developmentally appropriate measures to assess student academic achievement.


(6) Reports(A) Interim reportNot later than 3 years after January 8, 2002, the Secretary shall transmit to the President, the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate an interim report on the national assessment conducted under this subsection.


(B) Final reportNot later than 5 years after January 8, 2002, the Secretary shall transmit to the President, the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a final report on the national assessment conducted under this subsection.




(b) Studies and data collection(1) In generalIn addition to other activities described in this section, the Secretary may, directly or through awarding grants to or entering into contracts with appropriate entities—(A) assess the implementation and effectiveness of programs under this subchapter;

(B) collect the data necessary to comply with the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993; and

(C) provide guidance and technical assistance to State educational agencies and local educational agencies in developing and maintaining management information systems through which such agencies may develop program performance indicators to improve services and performance.


(2) Minimum informationIn carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall collect, at a minimum, trend information on the effect of each program authorized under this subchapter, which shall complement the data collected and reported under subsections (a) and (c) of this section.



(c) National longitudinal study(1) In generalThe Secretary shall conduct a longitudinal study of schools receiving assistance under part A of this subchapter.


(2) Issues to be examinedIn carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall ensure that the study referred to in paragraph (1) provides Congress and educators with each of the following:(A) An accurate description and analysis of the short- and long-term effect of the assistance made available under this subchapter on academic achievement.

(B) Information that can be used to improve the effectiveness of the assistance made available under this subchapter in enabling students to meet challenging academic achievement standards.

(C) An analysis of educational practices or model programs that are effective in improving the achievement of disadvantaged children.

(D) An analysis of the costs as compared to the benefits of the assistance made available under this subchapter in improving the achievement of disadvantaged children.

(E) An analysis of the effects of the availability of school choice options under section 6316 of this title on the academic achievement of disadvantaged students, on schools in school improvement, and on schools from which students have transferred under such options.

(F) Such other information as the Secretary considers appropriate.


(3) ScopeIn conducting the study referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure that the study—(A) bases its analysis on a nationally representative sample of schools participating in programs under this subchapter;

(B) to the extent practicable, includes in its analysis students who transfer to different schools during the course of the study; and

(C) analyzes varying models or strategies for delivering school services, including—(i) schoolwide and targeted services; and

(ii) comprehensive school reform models.




(d) Independent Review Panel(1) In generalThe Secretary shall establish an independent review panel (in this subsection referred to as the “Review Panel”) to advise the Secretary on methodological and other issues that arise in carrying out subsections (a) and (c) of this section.


(2) Appointment of members(A) In generalSubject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall appoint members of the Review Panel from among qualified individuals who are—(i) specialists in statistics, evaluation, research, and assessment;

(ii) education practitioners, including teachers, principals, and local and State superintendents;

(iii) parents and members of local school boards or other organizations involved with the implementation and operation of programs under this subchapter; and

(iv) other individuals with technical expertise who will contribute to the overall rigor and quality of the program evaluation.


(B) LimitationsIn appointing members of the Review Panel, the Secretary shall ensure that—(i) in order to ensure diversity, the Review Panel includes individuals appointed under subparagraph (A)(i) who represent disciplines or programs outside the field of education; and

(ii) the total number of the individuals appointed under subparagraph (A)(ii) or (A)(iv) does not exceed one-fourth of the total number of the individuals appointed under this paragraph.



(3) FunctionsThe Review Panel shall consult with and advise the Secretary—(A) to ensure that the assessment conducted under subsection (a) of this section and the study conducted under subsection (c) of this section—(i) adhere to the highest possible standards of quality with respect to research design, statistical analysis, and the dissemination of findings; and

(ii) use valid and reliable measures to document program implementation and impacts; and


(B) to ensure—(i) that the final report described in subsection (a)(6)(B) of this section is reviewed not later than 120 days after its completion by not less than two independent experts in program evaluation (who may be from among the members of the Review Panel appointed under paragraph (2));

(ii) that such experts evaluate and comment on the degree to which the report complies with subsection (a) of this section; and

(iii) that the comments of such experts are transmitted with the report under subsection (a)(6)(B) of this section.




(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1501, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1592; amended Pub. L. 107–279, title IV, § 404(d)(4), Nov. 5, 2002, 116 Stat. 1986.)


References in TextThe Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(B), is Pub. L. 103–62, Aug. 3, 1993, 107 Stat. 285, which enacted section 306 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, sections 1115 to 1119, 9703, and 9704 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and sections 2801 to 2805 of Title 39, Postal Service, amended section 1105 of Title 31, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 1101 and 1115 of Title 31. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1993 Amendment note set out under section 1101 of Title 31 and Tables.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6491, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1501, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3601; amended Pub. L. 104–134, title I, § 101(d) [title VII, § 703(b)(3)], Apr. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 1321–211, 1321–255; renumbered title I, Pub. L. 104–140, § 1(a), May 2, 1996, 110 Stat. 1327; Pub. L. 105–18, title VI, § 60002, June 12, 1997, 111 Stat. 214, related to evaluations, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.
A prior section 1501 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 2911 of this title, prior to the general amendment of Pub. L. 89–10 by Pub. L. 103–382.

Amendments2002—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 107–279 substituted “section 9622 of this title” for “section 9010 of this title”.


