§ 6311. State plans(a) Plans required(1) In generalFor any State desiring to receive a grant under this part, the State educational agency shall submit to the Secretary a plan, developed by the State educational agency, in consultation with local educational agencies, teachers, principals, pupil services personnel, administrators (including administrators of programs described in other parts of this subchapter), other staff, and parents, that satisfies the requirements of this section and that is coordinated with other programs under this chapter, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.], the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 [20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.], the Head Start Act [42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.], the Adult Education and Family Literacy Act [20 U.S.C. 9201 et seq.], and the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act [42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.].


(2) Consolidated planA State plan submitted under paragraph (1) may be submitted as part of a consolidated plan under section 7842 of this title.



(b) Academic standards, academic assessments, and accountability(1) Challenging academic standards(A) In generalEach State plan shall demonstrate that the State has adopted challenging academic content standards and challenging student academic achievement standards that will be used by the State, its local educational agencies, and its schools to carry out this part, except that a State shall not be required to submit such standards to the Secretary.


(B) Same standardsThe academic standards required by subparagraph (A) shall be the same academic standards that the State applies to all schools and children in the State.


(C) SubjectsThe State shall have such academic standards for all public elementary school and secondary school children, including children served under this part, in subjects determined by the State, but including at least mathematics, reading or language arts, and (beginning in the 2005–2006 school year) science, which shall include the same knowledge, skills, and levels of achievement expected of all children.


(D) Challenging academic standardsStandards under this paragraph shall include—(i) challenging academic content standards in academic subjects that—(I) specify what children are expected to know and be able to do;

(II) contain coherent and rigorous content; and

(III) encourage the teaching of advanced skills; and


(ii) challenging student academic achievement standards that—(I) are aligned with the State’s academic content standards;

(II) describe two levels of high achievement (proficient and advanced) that determine how well children are mastering the material in the State academic content standards; and

(III) describe a third level of achievement (basic) to provide complete information about the progress of the lower-achieving children toward mastering the proficient and advanced levels of achievement.



(E) InformationFor the subjects in which students will be served under this part, but for which a State is not required by subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) to develop, and has not otherwise developed, such academic standards, the State plan shall describe a strategy for ensuring that students are taught the same knowledge and skills in such subjects and held to the same expectations as are all children.


(F) Existing standardsNothing in this part shall prohibit a State from revising, consistent with this section, any standard adopted under this part before or after January 8, 2002.



(2) Accountability(A) In generalEach State plan shall demonstrate that the State has developed and is implementing a single, statewide State accountability system that will be effective in ensuring that all local educational agencies, public elementary schools, and public secondary schools make adequate yearly progress as defined under this paragraph. Each State accountability system shall—(i) be based on the academic standards and academic assessments adopted under paragraphs (1) and (3), and other academic indicators consistent with subparagraph (C)(vi) and (vii), and shall take into account the achievement of all public elementary school and secondary school students;

(ii) be the same accountability system the State uses for all public elementary schools and secondary schools or all local educational agencies in the State, except that public elementary schools, secondary schools, and local educational agencies not participating under this part are not subject to the requirements of section 6316 of this title; and

(iii) include sanctions and rewards, such as bonuses and recognition, the State will use to hold local educational agencies and public elementary schools and secondary schools accountable for student achievement and for ensuring that they make adequate yearly progress in accordance with the State’s definition under subparagraphs (B) and (C).


(B) Adequate yearly progressEach State plan shall demonstrate, based on academic assessments described in paragraph (3), and in accordance with this paragraph, what constitutes adequate yearly progress of the State, and of all public elementary schools, secondary schools, and local educational agencies in the State, toward enabling all public elementary school and secondary school students to meet the State’s student academic achievement standards, while working toward the goal of narrowing the achievement gaps in the State, local educational agencies, and schools.


(C) Definition“Adequate yearly progress” shall be defined by the State in a manner that—(i) applies the same high standards of academic achievement to all public elementary school and secondary school students in the State;

(ii) is statistically valid and reliable;

(iii) results in continuous and substantial academic improvement for all students;

(iv) measures the progress of public elementary schools, secondary schools and local educational agencies and the State based primarily on the academic assessments described in paragraph (3);

(v) includes separate measurable annual objectives for continuous and substantial improvement for each of the following:(I) The achievement of all public elementary school and secondary school students.

(II) The achievement of—(aa) economically disadvantaged students;

(bb) students from major racial and ethnic groups;

(cc) students with disabilities; and

(dd) students with limited English proficiency;



  except that disaggregation of data under subclause (II) shall not be required in a case in which the number of students in a category is insufficient to yield statistically reliable information or the results would reveal personally identifiable information about an individual student;

(vi) in accordance with subparagraph (D), includes graduation rates for public secondary school students (defined as the percentage of students who graduate from secondary school with a regular diploma in the standard number of years) and at least one other academic indicator, as determined by the State for all public elementary school students; and

(vii) in accordance with subparagraph (D), at the State’s discretion, may also include other academic indicators, as determined by the State for all public school students, measured separately for each group described in clause (v), such as achievement on additional State or locally administered assessments, decreases in grade-to-grade retention rates, attendance rates, and changes in the percentages of students completing gifted and talented, advanced placement, and college preparatory courses.


(D) Requirements for other indicatorsIn carrying out subparagraph (C)(vi) and (vii), the State—(i) shall ensure that the indicators described in those provisions are valid and reliable, and are consistent with relevant, nationally recognized professional and technical standards, if any; and

(ii) except as provided in subparagraph (I)(i), may not use those indicators to reduce the number of, or change, the schools that would otherwise be subject to school improvement, corrective action, or restructuring under section 6316 of this title if those additional indicators were not used, but may use them to identify additional schools for school improvement or in need of corrective action or restructuring.


(E) Starting pointEach State, using data for the 2001–2002 school year, shall establish the starting point for measuring, under subparagraphs (G) and (H), the percentage of students meeting or exceeding the State’s proficient level of academic achievement on the State assessments under paragraph (3) and pursuant to the timeline described in subparagraph (F). The starting point shall be, at a minimum, based on the higher of the percentage of students at the proficient level who are in—(i) the State’s lowest achieving group of students described in subparagraph (C)(v)(II); or

(ii) the school at the 20th percentile in the State, based on enrollment, among all schools ranked by the percentage of students at the proficient level.


(F) TimelineEach State shall establish a timeline for adequate yearly progress. The timeline shall ensure that not later than 12 years after the end of the 2001–2002 school year, all students in each group described in subparagraph (C)(v) will meet or exceed the State’s proficient level of academic achievement on the State assessments under paragraph (3).


(G) Measurable objectivesEach State shall establish statewide annual measurable objectives, pursuant to subparagraph (C)(v), for meeting the requirements of this paragraph, and which—(i) shall be set separately for the assessments of mathematics and reading or language arts under subsection (a)(3) of this section;

(ii) shall be the same for all schools and local educational agencies in the State;

(iii) shall identify a single minimum percentage of students who are required to meet or exceed the proficient level on the academic assessments that applies separately to each group of students described in subparagraph (C)(v);

(iv) shall ensure that all students will meet or exceed the State’s proficient level of academic achievement on the State assessments within the State’s timeline under subparagraph (F); and

(v) may be the same for more than 1 year, subject to the requirements of subparagraph (H).


(H) Intermediate goals for annual yearly progressEach State shall establish intermediate goals for meeting the requirements, including the measurable objectives in subparagraph (G), of this paragraph and that shall—(i) increase in equal increments over the period covered by the State’s timeline under subparagraph (F);

(ii) provide for the first increase to occur in not more than 2 years; and

(iii) provide for each following increase to occur in not more than 3 years.


(I) Annual improvement for schoolsEach year, for a school to make adequate yearly progress under this paragraph—(i) each group of students described in subparagraph (C)(v) must meet or exceed the objectives set by the State under subparagraph (G), except that if any group described in subparagraph (C)(v) does not meet those objectives in any particular year, the school shall be considered to have made adequate yearly progress if the percentage of students in that group who did not meet or exceed the proficient level of academic achievement on the State assessments under paragraph (3) for that year decreased by 10 percent of that percentage from the preceding school year and that group made progress on one or more of the academic indicators described in subparagraph (C)(vi) or (vii); and

(ii) not less than 95 percent of each group of students described in subparagraph (C)(v) who are enrolled in the school are required to take the assessments, consistent with paragraph (3)(C)(xi) and with accommodations, guidelines, and alternative assessments provided in the same manner as those provided under section 612(a)(16)(A) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1412(a)(16)(A)] and paragraph (3), on which adequate yearly progress is based (except that the 95 percent requirement described in this clause shall not apply in a case in which the number of students in a category is insufficient to yield statistically reliable information or the results would reveal personally identifiable information about an individual student).


(J) Uniform averaging procedureFor the purpose of determining whether schools are making adequate yearly progress, the State may establish a uniform procedure for averaging data which includes one or more of the following:(i) The State may average data from the school year for which the determination is made with data from one or two school years immediately preceding that school year.

(ii) Until the assessments described in paragraph (3) are administered in such manner and time to allow for the implementation of the uniform procedure for averaging data described in clause (i), the State may use the academic assessments that were required under paragraph (3) as that paragraph was in effect on the day preceding January 8, 2002, provided that nothing in this clause shall be construed to undermine or delay the determination of adequate yearly progress, the requirements of section 6316 of this title, or the implementation of assessments under this section.

(iii) The State may use data across grades in a school.


(K) Accountability for charter schoolsThe accountability provisions under this chapter shall be overseen for charter schools in accordance with State charter school law.



(3) Academic assessments(A) In generalEach State plan shall demonstrate that the State educational agency, in consultation with local educational agencies, has implemented a set of high-quality, yearly student academic assessments that include, at a minimum, academic assessments in mathematics, reading or language arts, and science that will be used as the primary means of determining the yearly performance of the State and of each local educational agency and school in the State in enabling all children to meet the State’s challenging student academic achievement standards, except that no State shall be required to meet the requirements of this part relating to science assessments until the beginning of the 2007–2008 school year.


(B) Use of assessmentsEach State educational agency may incorporate the data from the assessments under this paragraph into a State-developed longitudinal data system that links student test scores, length of enrollment, and graduation records over time.


(C) RequirementsSuch assessments shall—(i) be the same academic assessments used to measure the achievement of all children;

(ii) be aligned with the State’s challenging academic content and student academic achievement standards, and provide coherent information about student attainment of such standards;

(iii) be used for purposes for which such assessments are valid and reliable, and be consistent with relevant, nationally recognized professional and technical standards;

(iv) be used only if the State educational agency provides to the Secretary evidence from the test publisher or other relevant sources that the assessments used are of adequate technical quality for each purpose required under this chapter and are consistent with the requirements of this section, and such evidence is made public by the Secretary upon request;

(v)(I) except as otherwise provided for grades 3 through 8 under clause vii, measure the proficiency of students in, at a minimum, mathematics and reading or language arts, and be administered not less than once during—(aa) grades 3 through 5;

(bb) grades 6 through 9; and

(cc) grades 10 through 12;


(II) beginning not later than school year 2007–2008, measure the proficiency of all students in science and be administered not less than one time during—(aa) grades 3 through 5;

(bb) grades 6 through 9; and

(cc) grades 10 through 12;



(vi) involve multiple up-to-date measures of student academic achievement, including measures that assess higher-order thinking skills and understanding;

(vii) beginning not later than school year 2005–2006, measure the achievement of students against the challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards in each of grades 3 through 8 in, at a minimum, mathematics, and reading or language arts, except that the Secretary may provide the State 1 additional year if the State demonstrates that exceptional or uncontrollable circumstances, such as a natural disaster or a precipitous and unforeseen decline in the financial resources of the State, prevented full implementation of the academic assessments by that deadline and that the State will complete implementation within the additional 1-year period;

(viii) at the discretion of the State, measure the proficiency of students in academic subjects not described in clauses (v), (vi), (vii) in which the State has adopted challenging academic content and academic achievement standards;

(ix) provide for—(I) the participation in such assessments of all students;

(II) the reasonable adaptations and accommodations for students with disabilities (as defined under section 602(3) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1401(3)]) necessary to measure the academic achievement of such students relative to State academic content and State student academic achievement standards; and

(III) the inclusion of limited English proficient students, who shall be assessed in a valid and reliable manner and provided reasonable accommodations on assessments administered to such students under this paragraph, including, to the extent practicable, assessments in the language and form most likely to yield accurate data on what such students know and can do in academic content areas, until such students have achieved English language proficiency as determined under paragraph (7);


(x) notwithstanding subclause (III), the academic assessment (using tests written in English) of reading or language arts of any student who has attended school in the United States (not including Puerto Rico) for three or more consecutive school years, except that if the local educational agency determines, on a case-by-case individual basis, that academic assessments in another language or form would likely yield more accurate and reliable information on what such student knows and can do, the local educational agency may make a determination to assess such student in the appropriate language other than English for a period that does not exceed two additional consecutive years, provided that such student has not yet reached a level of English language proficiency sufficient to yield valid and reliable information on what such student knows and can do on tests (written in English) of reading or language arts;

(xi) include students who have attended schools in a local educational agency for a full academic year but have not attended a single school for a full academic year, except that the performance of students who have attended more than 1 school in the local educational agency in any academic year shall be used only in determining the progress of the local educational agency;

(xii) produce individual student interpretive, descriptive, and diagnostic reports, consistent with clause (iii) that allow parents, teachers, and principals to understand and address the specific academic needs of students, and include information regarding achievement on academic assessments aligned with State academic achievement standards, and that are provided to parents, teachers, and principals, as soon as is practicably possible after the assessment is given, in an understandable and uniform format, and to the extent practicable, in a language that parents can understand;

(xiii) enable results to be disaggregated within each State, local educational agency, and school by gender, by each major racial and ethnic group, by English proficiency status, by migrant status, by students with disabilities as compared to nondisabled students, and by economically disadvantaged students as compared to students who are not economically disadvantaged, except that, in the case of a local educational agency or a school, such disaggregation shall not be required in a case in which the number of students in a category is insufficient to yield statistically reliable information or the results would reveal personally identifiable information about an individual student;

(xiv) be consistent with widely accepted professional testing standards, objectively measure academic achievement, knowledge, and skills, and be tests that do not evaluate or assess personal or family beliefs and attitudes, or publicly disclose personally identifiable information; and

(xv) enable itemized score analyses to be produced and reported, consistent with clause (iii), to local educational agencies and schools, so that parents, teachers, principals, and administrators can interpret and address the specific academic needs of students as indicated by the students’ achievement on assessment items.


(D) DeferralA State may defer the commencement, or suspend the administration, but not cease the development, of the assessments described in this paragraph, that were not required prior to January 8, 2002, for 1 year for each year for which the amount appropriated for grants under section 7301b(a)(2) of this title is less than—(i) $370,000,000 for fiscal year 2002;

(ii) $380,000,000 for fiscal year 2003;

(iii) $390,000,000 for fiscal year 2004; and

(iv) $400,000,000 for fiscal years 2005 through 2007.



(4) Special ruleAcademic assessment measures in addition to those in paragraph (3) that do not meet the requirements of such paragraph may be included in the assessment under paragraph (3) as additional measures, but may not be used in lieu of the academic assessments required under paragraph (3). Such additional assessment measures may not be used to reduce the number of or change, the schools that would otherwise be subject to school improvement, corrective action, or restructuring under section 6316 of this title if such additional indicators were not used, but may be used to identify additional schools for school improvement or in need of corrective action or restructuring except as provided in paragraph (2)(I)(i).


(5) State authorityIf a State educational agency provides evidence, which is satisfactory to the Secretary, that neither the State educational agency nor any other State government official, agency, or entity has sufficient authority, under State law, to adopt curriculum content and student academic achievement standards, and academic assessments aligned with such academic standards, which will be applicable to all students enrolled in the State’s public elementary schools and secondary schools, then the State educational agency may meet the requirements of this subsection by—(A) adopting academic standards and academic assessments that meet the requirements of this subsection, on a statewide basis, and limiting their applicability to students served under this part; or

(B) adopting and implementing policies that ensure that each local educational agency in the State that receives grants under this part will adopt curriculum content and student academic achievement standards, and academic assessments aligned with such standards, which—(i) meet all of the criteria in this subsection and any regulations regarding such standards and assessments that the Secretary may publish; and

(ii) are applicable to all students served by each such local educational agency.



(6) Language assessmentsEach State plan shall identify the languages other than English that are present in the participating student population and indicate the languages for which yearly student academic assessments are not available and are needed. The State shall make every effort to develop such assessments and may request assistance from the Secretary if linguistically accessible academic assessment measures are needed. Upon request, the Secretary shall assist with the identification of appropriate academic assessment measures in the needed languages, but shall not mandate a specific academic assessment or mode of instruction.


(7) Academic assessments of English language proficiencyEach State plan shall demonstrate that local educational agencies in the State will, beginning not later than school year 2002–2003, provide for an annual assessment of English proficiency (measuring students’ oral language, reading, and writing skills in English) of all students with limited English proficiency in the schools served by the State educational agency, except that the Secretary may provide the State 1 additional year if the State demonstrates that exceptional or uncontrollable circumstances, such as a natural disaster or a precipitous and unforeseen decline in the financial resources of the State, prevented full implementation of this paragraph by that deadline and that the State will complete implementation within the additional 1-year period.


(8) RequirementEach State plan shall describe—(A) how the State educational agency will assist each local educational agency and school affected by the State plan to develop the capacity to comply with each of the requirements of sections 6312(c)(1)(D), 6314(b), and 6315(c) of this title that is applicable to such agency or school;

(B) how the State educational agency will assist each local educational agency and school affected by the State plan to provide additional educational assistance to individual students assessed as needing help to achieve the State’s challenging academic achievement standards;

(C) the specific steps the State educational agency will take to ensure that both schoolwide programs and targeted assistance schools provide instruction by highly qualified instructional staff as required by sections 6314(b)(1)(C) and 6315(c)(1)(E) of this title, including steps that the State educational agency will take to ensure that poor and minority children are not taught at higher rates than other children by inexperienced, unqualified, or out-of-field teachers, and the measures that the State educational agency will use to evaluate and publicly report the progress of the State educational agency with respect to such steps;

(D) an assurance that the State educational agency will assist local educational agencies in developing or identifying high-quality effective curricula aligned with State academic achievement standards and how the State educational agency will disseminate such curricula to each local educational agency and school within the State; and

(E) such other factors the State educational agency determines appropriate to provide students an opportunity to achieve the knowledge and skills described in the challenging academic content standards adopted by the State.


(9) Factors affecting student achievementEach State plan shall include an assurance that the State educational agency will coordinate and collaborate, to the extent feasible and necessary as determined by the State educational agency, with agencies providing services to children, youth, and families, with respect to local educational agencies within the State that are identified under section 6316 of this title and that request assistance with addressing major factors that have significantly affected the academic achievement of students in the local educational agency or schools served by such agency.


(10) Use of academic assessment results to improve student academic achievementEach State plan shall describe how the State educational agency will ensure that the results of the State assessments described in paragraph (3)—(A) will be promptly provided to local educational agencies, schools, and teachers in a manner that is clear and easy to understand, but not later than before the beginning of the next school year; and

(B) be used by those local educational agencies, schools, and teachers to improve the educational achievement of individual students.



(c) Other provisions to support teaching and learningEach State plan shall contain assurances that—(1) the State educational agency will meet the requirements of subsection (h)(1) of this section and, beginning with the 2002–2003 school year, will produce the annual State report cards described in such subsection, except that the Secretary may provide the State educational agency 1 additional year if the State educational agency demonstrates that exceptional or uncontrollable circumstances, such as a natural disaster or a precipitous and unforeseen decline in the financial resources of the State, prevented full implementation of this paragraph by that deadline and that the State will complete implementation within the additional 1-year period;

(2) the State will, beginning in school year 2002–2003, participate in biennial State academic assessments of 4th and 8th grade reading and mathematics under the National Assessment of Educational Progress carried out under section 9622(b)(2) of this title if the Secretary pays the costs of administering such assessments;

(3) the State educational agency, in consultation with the Governor, will include, as a component of the State plan, a plan to carry out the responsibilities of the State under sections 6316 and 6317 of this title, including carrying out the State educational agency’s statewide system of technical assistance and support for local educational agencies;

(4) the State educational agency will work with other agencies, including educational service agencies or other local consortia, and institutions to provide technical assistance to local educational agencies and schools, including technical assistance in providing professional development under section 6319 of this title, technical assistance under section 6317 of this title, and technical assistance relating to parental involvement under section 6318 of this title;

(5)(A) where educational service agencies exist, the State educational agency will consider providing professional development and technical assistance through such agencies; and

(B) where educational service agencies do not exist, the State educational agency will consider providing professional development and technical assistance through other cooperative agreements such as through a consortium of local educational agencies;


(6) the State educational agency will notify local educational agencies and the public of the content and student academic achievement standards and academic assessments developed under this section, and of the authority to operate schoolwide programs, and will fulfill the State educational agency’s responsibilities regarding local educational agency improvement and school improvement under section 6316 of this title, including such corrective actions as are necessary;

(7) the State educational agency will provide the least restrictive and burdensome regulations for local educational agencies and individual schools participating in a program assisted under this part;

(8) the State educational agency will inform the Secretary and the public of how Federal laws, if at all, hinder the ability of States to hold local educational agencies and schools accountable for student academic achievement;

(9) the State educational agency will encourage schools to consolidate funds from other Federal, State, and local sources for schoolwide reform in schoolwide programs under section 6314 of this title;

(10) the State educational agency will modify or eliminate State fiscal and accounting barriers so that schools can easily consolidate funds from other Federal, State, and local sources for schoolwide programs under section 6314 of this title;

(11) the State educational agency has involved the committee of practitioners established under section 6573(b) of this title in developing the plan and monitoring its implementation;

(12) the State educational agency will inform local educational agencies in the State of the local educational agency’s authority to transfer funds under subchapter VI of this chapter, to obtain waivers under part D of subchapter IX of this chapter, and, if the State is an Ed-Flex Partnership State, to obtain waivers under the Education Flexibility Partnership Act of 1999;

(13) the State educational agency will coordinate activities funded under this part with other Federal activities as appropriate; and

(14) the State educational agency will encourage local educational agencies and individual schools participating in a program assisted under this part to offer family literacy services (using funds under this part), if the agency or school determines that a substantial number of students served under this part by the agency or school have parents who do not have a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent or who have low levels of literacy.


(d) Parental involvementEach State plan shall describe how the State educational agency will support the collection and dissemination to local educational agencies and schools of effective parental involvement practices. Such practices shall—(1) be based on the most current research that meets the highest professional and technical standards, on effective parental involvement that fosters achievement to high standards for all children; and

(2) be geared toward lowering barriers to greater participation by parents in school planning, review, and improvement experienced.


(e) Peer review and Secretarial approval(1) Secretarial dutiesThe Secretary shall—(A) establish a peer-review process to assist in the review of State plans;

(B) appoint individuals to the peer-review process who are representative of parents, teachers, State educational agencies, and local educational agencies, and who are familiar with educational standards, assessments, accountability, the needs of low-performing schools, and other educational needs of students;

(C) approve a State plan within 120 days of its submission unless the Secretary determines that the plan does not meet the requirements of this section;

(D) if the Secretary determines that the State plan does not meet the requirements of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section, immediately notify the State of such determination and the reasons for such determination;

(E) not decline to approve a State’s plan before—(i) offering the State an opportunity to revise its plan;

(ii) providing technical assistance in order to assist the State to meet the requirements of subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section; and

(iii) providing a hearing; and


(F) have the authority to disapprove a State plan for not meeting the requirements of this part, but shall not have the authority to require a State, as a condition of approval of the State plan, to include in, or delete from, such plan one or more specific elements of the State’s academic content standards or to use specific academic assessment instruments or items.


(2) State revisionsA State plan shall be revised by the State educational agency if it is necessary to satisfy the requirements of this section.



(f) Duration of the plan(1) In generalEach State plan shall—(A) remain in effect for the duration of the State’s participation under this part; and

(B) be periodically reviewed and revised as necessary by the State educational agency to reflect changes in the State’s strategies and programs under this part.


(2) Additional informationIf significant changes are made to a State’s plan, such as the adoption of new State academic content standards and State student achievement standards, new academic assessments, or a new definition of adequate yearly progress, such information shall be submitted to the Secretary.



(g) Penalties(1) Failure to meet deadlines enacted in 1994(A) In generalIf a State fails to meet the deadlines established by the Improving America’s Schools Act of 1994 (or under any waiver granted by the Secretary or under any compliance agreement with the Secretary) for demonstrating that the State has in place challenging academic content standards and student achievement standards, and a system for measuring and monitoring adequate yearly progress, the Secretary shall withhold 25 percent of the funds that would otherwise be available to the State for State administration and activities under this part in each year until the Secretary determines that the State meets those requirements.


(B) No extensionNotwithstanding any other provision of law, 90 days after January 8, 2002, the Secretary shall not grant any additional waivers of, or enter into any additional compliance agreements to extend, the deadlines described in subparagraph (A) for any State.



(2) Failure to meet requirements enacted in 2001If a State fails to meet any of the requirements of this section, other than the requirements described in paragraph (1), then the Secretary may withhold funds for State administration under this part until the Secretary determines that the State has fulfilled those requirements.



(h) Reports(1) Annual State report card(A) In generalNot later than the beginning of the 2002–2003 school year, unless the State has received a 1-year extension pursuant to subsection (c)(1) of this section, a State that receives assistance under this part shall prepare and disseminate an annual State report card.


(B) ImplementationThe State report card shall be—(i) concise; and

(ii) presented in an understandable and uniform format and, to the extent practicable, provided in a language that the parents can understand.


(C) Required informationThe State shall include in its annual State report card—(i) information, in the aggregate, on student achievement at each proficiency level on the State academic assessments described in subsection (b)(3) of this section (disaggregated by race, ethnicity, gender, disability status, migrant status, English proficiency, and status as economically disadvantaged, except that such disaggregation shall not be required in a case in which the number of students in a category is insufficient to yield statistically reliable information or the results would reveal personally identifiable information about an individual student);

(ii) information that provides a comparison between the actual achievement levels of each group of students described in subsection (b)(2)(C)(v) of this section and the State’s annual measurable objectives for each such group of students on each of the academic assessments required under this part;

(iii) the percentage of students not tested (disaggregated by the same categories and subject to the same exception described in clause (i));

(iv) the most recent 2-year trend in student achievement in each subject area, and for each grade level, for which assessments under this section are required;

(v) aggregate information on any other indicators used by the State to determine the adequate yearly progress of students in achieving State academic achievement standards;

(vi) graduation rates for secondary school students consistent with subsection (b)(2)(C)(vi) of this section;

(vii) information on the performance of local educational agencies in the State regarding making adequate yearly progress, including the number and names of each school identified for school improvement under section 6316 of this title; and

(viii) the professional qualifications of teachers in the State, the percentage of such teachers teaching with emergency or provisional credentials, and the percentage of classes in the State not taught by highly qualified teachers, in the aggregate and disaggregated by high-poverty compared to low-poverty schools which, for the purpose of this clause, means schools in the top quartile of poverty and the bottom quartile of poverty in the State.


(D) Optional informationThe State may include in its annual State report card such other information as the State believes will best provide parents, students, and other members of the public with information regarding the progress of each of the State’s public elementary schools and public secondary schools. Such information may include information regarding—(i) school attendance rates;

(ii) average class size in each grade;

(iii) academic achievement and gains in English proficiency of limited English proficient students;

(iv) the incidence of school violence, drug abuse, alcohol abuse, student suspensions, and student expulsions;

(v) the extent and type of parental involvement in the schools;

(vi) the percentage of students completing advanced placement courses, and the rate of passing of advanced placement tests; and

(vii) a clear and concise description of the State’s accountability system, including a description of the criteria by which the State evaluates school performance, and the criteria that the State has established, consistent with subsection (b)(2) of this section, to determine the status of schools regarding school improvement, corrective action, and restructuring.



(2) Annual local educational agency report cards(A) Report cards(i) In generalNot later than the beginning of the 2002–2003 school year, a local educational agency that receives assistance under this part shall prepare and disseminate an annual local educational agency report card, except that the State educational agency may provide the local educational agency 1 additional year if the local educational agency demonstrates that exceptional or uncontrollable circumstances, such as a natural disaster or a precipitous and unforeseen decline in the financial resources of the local educational agency, prevented full implementation of this paragraph by that deadline and that the local educational agency will complete implementation within the additional 1-year period.


(ii) Special ruleIf a State educational agency has received an extension pursuant to subsection (c)(1) of this section, then a local educational agency within that State shall not be required to include the information required under paragraph (1)(C) in such report card during such extension.



(B) Minimum requirementsThe State educational agency shall ensure that each local educational agency collects appropriate data and includes in the local educational agency’s annual report the information described in paragraph (1)(C) as applied to the local educational agency and each school served by the local educational agency, and—(i) in the case of a local educational agency—(I) the number and percentage of schools identified for school improvement under section 6316(c) of this title and how long the schools have been so identified; and

(II) information that shows how students served by the local educational agency achieved on the statewide academic assessment compared to students in the State as a whole; and


(ii) in the case of a school—(I) whether the school has been identified for school improvement; and

(II) information that shows how the school’s students achievement on the statewide academic assessments and other indicators of adequate yearly progress compared to students in the local educational agency and the State as a whole.



(C) Other informationA local educational agency may include in its annual local educational agency report card any other appropriate information, whether or not such information is included in the annual State report card.


(D) DataA local educational agency or school shall only include in its annual local educational agency report card data that are sufficient to yield statistically reliable information, as determined by the State, and that do not reveal personally identifiable information about an individual student.


(E) Public disseminationThe local educational agency shall, not later than the beginning of the 2002–2003 school year, unless the local educational agency has received a 1-year extension pursuant to subparagraph (A), publicly disseminate the information described in this paragraph to all schools in the school district served by the local educational agency and to all parents of students attending those schools in an understandable and uniform format and, to the extent practicable, provided in a language that the parents can understand, and make the information widely available through public means, such as posting on the Internet, distribution to the media, and distribution through public agencies, except that if a local educational agency issues a report card for all students, the local educational agency may include the information under this section as part of such report.



(3) Preexisting report cardsA State educational agency or local educational agency that was providing public report cards on the performance of students, schools, local educational agencies, or the State prior to January 8, 2002, may use those report cards for the purpose of this subsection, so long as any such report card is modified, as may be needed, to contain the information required by this subsection.


(4) Annual State report to the SecretaryEach State educational agency receiving assistance under this part shall report annually to the Secretary, and make widely available within the State—(A) beginning with school year 2002–2003, information on the State’s progress in developing and implementing the academic assessments described in subsection (b)(3) of this section;

(B) beginning not later than school year 2002–2003, information on the achievement of students on the academic assessments required by subsection (b)(3) of this section, including the disaggregated results for the categories of students identified in subsection (b)(2)(C)(v) of this section;

(C) in any year before the State begins to provide the information described in subparagraph (B), information on the results of student academic assessments (including disaggregated results) required under this section;

(D) beginning not later than school year 2002–2003, unless the State has received an extension pursuant to subsection (c)(1) of this section, information on the acquisition of English proficiency by children with limited English proficiency;

(E) the number and names of each school identified for school improvement under section 6316(c) of this title, the reason why each school was so identified, and the measures taken to address the achievement problems of such schools;

(F) the number of students and schools that participated in public school choice and supplemental service programs and activities under this subchapter; and

(G) beginning not later than the 2002–2003 school year, information on the quality of teachers and the percentage of classes being taught by highly qualified teachers in the State, local educational agency, and school.


(5) Report to CongressThe Secretary shall transmit annually to the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report that provides national and State-level data on the information collected under paragraph (4).


(6) Parents right-to-know(A) QualificationsAt the beginning of each school year, a local educational agency that receives funds under this part shall notify the parents of each student attending any school receiving funds under this part that the parents may request, and the agency will provide the parents on request (and in a timely manner), information regarding the professional qualifications of the student’s classroom teachers, including, at a minimum, the following:(i) Whether the teacher has met State qualification and licensing criteria for the grade levels and subject areas in which the teacher provides instruction.

(ii) Whether the teacher is teaching under emergency or other provisional status through which State qualification or licensing criteria have been waived.

(iii) The baccalaureate degree major of the teacher and any other graduate certification or degree held by the teacher, and the field of discipline of the certification or degree.

(iv) Whether the child is provided services by paraprofessionals and, if so, their qualifications.


(B) Additional informationIn addition to the information that parents may request under subparagraph (A), a school that receives funds under this part shall provide to each individual parent—(i) information on the level of achievement of the parent’s child in each of the State academic assessments as required under this part; and

(ii) timely notice that the parent’s child has been assigned, or has been taught for four or more consecutive weeks by, a teacher who is not highly qualified.


(C) FormatThe notice and information provided to parents under this paragraph shall be in an understandable and uniform format and, to the extent practicable, provided in a language that the parents can understand.




(i) PrivacyInformation collected under this section shall be collected and disseminated in a manner that protects the privacy of individuals.


(j) Technical assistanceThe Secretary shall provide a State educational agency, at the State educational agency’s request, technical assistance in meeting the requirements of this section, including the provision of advice by experts in the development of high-quality academic assessments, the setting of State standards, the development of measures of adequate yearly progress that are valid and reliable, and other relevant areas.


(k) Voluntary partnershipsA State may enter into a voluntary partnership with another State to develop and implement the academic assessments and standards required under this section.


(l) ConstructionNothing in this part shall be construed to prescribe the use of the academic assessments described in this part for student promotion or graduation purposes.


(m) Special rule with respect to Bureau-funded schoolsIn determining the assessments to be used by each operated or funded by BIA school receiving funds under this part, the following shall apply:(1) Each such school that is accredited by the State in which it is operating shall use the assessments the State has developed and implemented to meet the requirements of this section, or such other appropriate assessment as approved by the Secretary of the Interior.

(2) Each such school that is accredited by a regional accrediting organization shall adopt an appropriate assessment, in consultation with and with the approval of, the Secretary of the Interior and consistent with assessments adopted by other schools in the same State or region, that meets the requirements of this section.

(3) Each such school that is accredited by a tribal accrediting agency or tribal division of education shall use an assessment developed by such agency or division, except that the Secretary of the Interior shall ensure that such assessment meets the requirements of this section.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1111, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1444; amended Pub. L. 107–279, title IV, § 404(d)(1), Nov. 5, 2002, 116 Stat. 1985; Pub. L. 108–446, title III, § 305(g)(1), Dec. 3, 2004, 118 Stat. 2805; Pub. L. 109–270, § 2(f)(1), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 747.)


References in TextThe Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is title VI of Pub. L. 91–230, Apr. 13, 1970, 84 Stat. 175, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1400 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1400 of this title and Tables.
The Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is Pub. L. 88–210, Dec. 18, 1963, 77 Stat. 403, as amended generally by Pub. L. 109–270, § 1(b), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 683, which is classified generally to chapter 44 (§ 2301 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2301 of this title and Tables.
The Head Start Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is subchapter B (§§ 635–657) of chapter 8 of subtitle A of title VI of Pub. L. 97–35, Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 499, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 9831 et seq.) of chapter 105 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 9801 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Adult Education and Family Literacy Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is title II of Pub. L. 105–220, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1059, as amended, which is classified principally to subchapter I (§ 9201 et seq.) of chapter 73 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 9201 of this title and Tables.
The McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is Pub. L. 100–77, July 22, 1987, 101 Stat. 482, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 119 (§ 11301 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 11301 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Education Flexibility Partnership Act of 1999, referred to in subsec. (c)(12), is Pub. L. 106–25, Apr. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 41, as amended, which enacted sections 5891a and 5891b of this title, amended section 1415 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 1415 and 5891a of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1999 Amendment note set out under section 5801 of this title and Tables.
The Improving America’s Schools Act of 1994, referred to in subsec. (g)(1)(A), is Pub. L. 103–382, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3518, as amended. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1994 Amendment note set out under section 6301 of this title and Tables.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6311, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1111, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3523; amended Pub. L. 104–134, title I, § 101(d) [title VII, § 703(b)(1)], Apr. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 1321–211, 1321–254; renumbered title I, Pub. L. 104–140, § 1(a), May 2, 1996, 110 Stat. 1327; Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title XVI, § 1603], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A–328, related to State plans, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.
A prior section 1111 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 2768 of this title, prior to the general amendment of Pub. L. 89–10 by Pub. L. 103–382.

Amendments2006—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 109–270 substituted “Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006” for “Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act of 1998”.
2004—Subsec. (b)(2)(I)(ii). Pub. L. 108–446 substituted “section 612(a)(16)(A)” for “section 612(a)(17)(A)”.
2002—Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 107–279 substituted “section 9622(b)(2) of this title” for “section 9010(b)(2) of this title”.


