§ 2220b. General authority(a) Programs and activities affecting universities, agriculturally developing countries, and researchTo carry out the purposes of this subpart, the President is authorized to provide assistance on such terms and conditions as he shall determine—(1) to implement program components through United States universities as authorized by paragraphs (2) through (5) of this subsection;

(2) to build and strengthen the institutional capacity and human resource skills of agriculturally developing countries so that these countries may participate more fully in the international agricultural problem-solving effort and to introduce and adapt new solutions to local circumstances;

(3) to provide long-term program support for United States university global agricultural and related environmental collaborative research and learning opportunities for students, teachers, extension specialists, researchers, and the general public;

(4) to involve United States universities more fully in the international network of agricultural science, including the international agricultural research centers, the activities of international organizations such as the United Nations Development Program and the Food and Agriculture Organization, multilateral banks, the institutions of agriculturally developing nations, and United States and foreign nongovernmental organizations supporting extension and other productivity-enhancing programs; and

(5) to provide program support for international agricultural research centers, to provide support for research projects identified for specific problem-solving needs, and to develop and strengthen national research systems in the developing countries.


(b) Programs and activities respecting university capabilities, benefiting domestic and nondomestic agriculture, and based on existing programs and institutionsPrograms under this subpart shall be carried out so as to—(1) utilize and strengthen the capabilities of United States universities with public and private partners of universities in—(A) developing capacity in the cooperating nation for classroom teaching in agriculture, plant and animal sciences, human nutrition, and vocational and domestic arts and other relevant fields appropriate to local needs;

(B) agricultural research to be conducted in the cooperating nations, at international agricultural research centers, or in the United States;

(C) the planning, initiation, and development of extension services through which information concerning agriculture, environment, and related subjects will be made available directly to agriculturalists in the agriculturally developing nations by means of education and demonstration; or

(D) the exchange of educators, scientists, and students for the purpose of assisting in successful development in the cooperating nations;


(2) take into account the value to United States agriculture of such programs, integrating to the extent practicable the programs and financing authorized under this subpart with those supported by other Federal or State resources, including resources of the private sector, so as to maximize the contribution to the development of agriculture in the United States and in agriculturally developing nations; and

(3) whenever practicable, build on existing programs and institutions including those of the universities, the Department of Agriculture, State agricultural agencies, the Department of Commerce, the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Food and Drug Administration, other appropriate Federal agencies, and appropriate nongovernmental and business organizations.


(c) Activity objectivesTo the maximum extent practicable, activities under this section shall—(1) be directly related to the food and agricultural needs of developing countries;

(2) focus primarily on the needs of agricultural producers, rural families, processors, traders, consumers, and natural resources managers;

(3) be adapted to local circumstances;

(4) be carried out within the developing countries and transition countries comprising newly emerging democracies and newly liberalized economies; and

(5) emphasize the improvement of local systems for delivering the best available knowledge to the small farmers of such countries.


(d) Function of AdministratorThe President shall exercise his authority under this section through the Administrator.


(e) Special programsThe Administrator shall establish and carry out special programs under this subpart as part of ongoing programs for child survival, democratization, development of free enterprise, environmental and natural resource management, and other related programs.


(Pub. L. 87–195, pt. I, § 297, as added Pub. L. 94–161, title III, § 312, Dec. 20, 1975, 89 Stat. 863; amended Pub. L. 96–53, title I, § 113, Aug. 14, 1979, 93 Stat. 364; Pub. L. 106–373, § 3, Oct. 27, 2000, 114 Stat. 1431.)

Amendments2000—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 106–373, § 3(a)(1), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “to strengthen the capabilities of universities in teaching, research, and extension work to enable them to implement current programs authorized by paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5) of this subsection, and those proposed in the report required by section 2220e of this title;”.
Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 106–373, § 3(a)(2), amended par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (3) read as follows: “to provide program support for long-term collaborative university research, in the developing countries themselves to the maximum extent practicable, on food production, distribution, storage, marketing, and consumption;”.
Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 106–373, § 3(a)(3), inserted “United States” before “universities” and “agricultural” before “research centers” and substituted “multilateral banks, the institutions of agriculturally developing nations, and United States and foreign nongovernmental organizations supporting extension and other productivity-enhancing programs” for “and the institutions of agriculturally developing nations”.
Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 106–373, § 3(b)(1)(A), substituted “United States universities with public and private partners of universities” for “universities” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (b)(1)(C). Pub. L. 106–373, § 3(b)(1)(B), inserted “, environment,” before “and related” and substituted “agriculturalists” for “farmers and farm families”.
Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 106–373, § 3(b)(2), inserted “, including resources of the private sector,” after “Federal or State resources”.
Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 106–373, § 3(b)(3), substituted “, the Department of Agriculture, State agricultural agencies, the Department of Commerce, the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Food and Drug Administration, other appropriate Federal agencies, and appropriate nongovernmental and business organizations.” for “and the United States Department of Agriculture and the United States Department of Commerce.”
Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 106–373, § 3(c)(1), amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (2) read as follows: “be carried out within the developing countries;”.
Subsec. (c)(4). Pub. L. 106–373, § 3(c)(2), amended par. (4) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (4) read as follows: “provide for the most effective interrelationship between research, education, and extension in promoting agricultural development in developing countries; and”.
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 106–373, § 3(d), added subsec. (e).
1979—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 96–53, § 113(1), inserted provision relating to the scope of effort in developing countries.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 96–53, § 113(2), reworked activity objectives through revising terminology and structure and expanding such objectives to include requirement for a direct relationship between activities and the food and agricultural needs of developing countries.

Effective Date of 1979 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 96–53 effective Oct. 1, 1979, see section 512(a) of Pub. L. 96–53, set out as a note under section 2151 of this title.


Delegation of Functions
For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under section 2381 of this title.


