“SEC. 1515. REPORT ON EXPORT OF SATELLITES FOR LAUNCH BY PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.“(a) Requirement for Report.—Each report to Congress submitted pursuant to subsection (b) of section 902 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note; Public Law 101–246) to waive the restrictions contained in subsection (a) of that section on the export to the People’s Republic of China of any satellite of United States origin or related items shall be accompanied by a detailed justification setting forth the following:“(1) A detailed description of all militarily sensitive characteristics integrated within, or associated with, the satellite.

“(2) An estimate of the number of United States civilian contract personnel expected to be needed in country to carry out the proposed satellite launch.

“(3)(A) A detailed description of the United States Government’s plan to monitor the proposed satellite launch to ensure that no unauthorized transfer of technology occurs, together with an estimate of the number of officers and employees of the United States that are expected to be needed in country to carry out monitoring of the proposed satellite launch; and

“(B) the estimated cost to the Department of Defense of monitoring the proposed satellite launch and the amount of such cost that is to be reimbursed to the department.


“(4) The reasons why the proposed satellite launch is in the national security interest of the United States.

“(5) The impact of the proposed export on employment in the United States, including the number of new jobs created in the United States, on a State-by-State basis, as a direct result of the proposed export.

“(6) The number of existing jobs in the United States that would be lost, on a State-by-State basis, as a direct result of the proposed export not being licensed.

“(7) The impact of the proposed export on the balance of trade between the United States and the People’s Republic of China and on reducing the current United States trade deficit with the People’s Republic of China.

“(8) The impact of the proposed export on the transition of the People’s Republic of China from a nonmarket economy to a market economy and the long-term economic benefit to the United States.

“(9) The impact of the proposed export on opening new markets to United States-made products through the purchase by the People’s Republic of China of United States-made goods and services not directly related to the proposed export.

“(10) The impact of the proposed export on reducing acts, policies, and practices that constitute significant trade barriers to United States exports or foreign direct investment in the People’s Republic of China by United States nationals.

“(11) The increase that will result from the proposed export in the overall market share of the United States for goods and services in comparison to Japan, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, and Russia.

“(12) The impact of the proposed export on the willingness of the People’s Republic of China to modify its commercial and trade laws, practices, and regulations to make United States-made goods and services more accessible to that market.

“(13) The impact of the proposed export on the willingness of the People’s Republic of China to reduce formal and informal trade barriers and tariffs, duties, and other fees on United States-made goods and services entering that country.


“(b) Militarily Sensitive Characteristics Defined.—In this section, the term ‘militarily sensitive characteristics’ includes antijamming capability, antennas, crosslinks, baseband processing, encryption devices, radiation-hardened devices, propulsion systems, pointing accuracy, kick motors, and other such characteristics as are specified by the Secretary of Defense.

