§ 8909. Annual report on military and security developments involving the Russian Federation(a) ReportNot later than June 1, 2015, and June 1 of each year thereafter through 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the specified congressional committees a report, in both classified and unclassified form, on the current and future military power of the Russian Federation (in this section referred to as “Russia”). The report shall address the current and probable future course of military-technological development of the Russian military, the tenets and probable development of the security strategy and military strategy of the Government of Russia, and military organizations and operational concepts, for the 20-year period following submission of such report.


(b) Matters to be includedThe report required under subsection (a) shall include the following:(1) An assessment of the security situation in regions neighboring Russia.

(2) The goals and factors shaping the security strategy and military strategy of the Government of Russia.

(3) Trends in Russian security and military behavior that would be designed to achieve, or that are consistent with, the goals described in paragraph (2).

(4) An assessment of the global and regional security objectives of the Government of Russia, including objectives that would affect the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the Middle East, or the People’s Republic of China.

(5) A detailed assessment of the sizes, locations, and capabilities of the nuclear, special operations, land, sea, and air forces of the Government of Russia.

(6) Developments in Russian military doctrine and training.

(7) An assessment of the proliferation activities of the Government of Russia and Russian entities, as a supplier of materials, technologies, or expertise relating to nuclear weapons or other weapons of mass destruction or missile systems.

(8) Developments in the asymmetric capabilities of the Government of Russia, including its strategy and efforts to develop and deploy cyberwarfare and electronic warfare capabilities, details on the number of malicious cyber incidents originating from Russia against Department of Defense infrastructure, and associated activities originating or suspected of originating from Russia.

(9) The strategy and capabilities of space and counterspace programs in Russia, including trends, global and regional activities, the involvement of military and civilian organizations, including state-owned enterprises, academic institutions, and commercial entities, and efforts to develop, acquire, or gain access to advanced technologies that would enhance Russian military capabilities.

(10) Developments in Russia’s nuclear program, including the size and state of Russia’s stockpile, its nuclear strategy and associated doctrines, its civil and military production capacities, and projections of its future arsenals.

(11) A description of the anti-access and area denial capabilities of the Government of Russia.

(12) A description of Russia’s command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance modernization program and its applications for Russia’s precision guided weapons.

(13) In consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of State, developments regarding United States-Russian engagement and cooperation on security matters.

(14) Other military and security developments involving Russia that the Secretary of Defense considers relevant to United States national security.


(c) Specified congressional committees definedIn this section, the term “specified congressional committees” means—(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the majority leader and minority leader of the Senate; and

(2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Speaker and minority leader of the House of Representatives.


(Pub. L. 113–95, § 10, Apr. 3, 2014, 128 Stat. 1096.)
