“SEC. 102. FINDINGS.“The Congress finds and declares as follows:“(1) The Vancouver Declaration issued by President Clinton and President Yeltsin in April 1993 marked a new milestone in the development of the spirit of cooperation and partnership between the United States and Russia. The Congress affirms its support for the principles contained in the Vancouver Declaration.

“(2) The Vancouver Declaration underscored that—“(A) a dynamic and effective partnership between the United States and Russia is vital to the success of Russia’s historic transformation;

“(B) the rapid integration of Russia into the community of democratic nations and the world economy is important to the national interest of the United States; and

“(C) cooperation between the United States and Russia is essential to the peaceful resolution of international conflicts and the promotion of democratic values, the protection of human rights, and the solution of global problems such as environmental pollution, terrorism, and narcotics trafficking.


“(3) The Congress enacted the FREEDOM Support Act (Public Law 102–511) [see Short Title note above], as well as other legislation such as the Soviet Nuclear Threat Reduction Act of 1991 (title II of Public Law 102–228) [22 U.S.C. 2551 note] and the Former Soviet Union Demilitarization Act of 1992 (title XIV of Public Law 102–484) [22 U.S.C. 5901 et seq.], to help meet the historic opportunities and challenges presented by the transformation that has taken place, and is continuing to take place, in what once was the Soviet Union.

“(4) The process of reform in Russia, Ukraine, and the other independent states of the former Soviet Union is ongoing. The holding of a referendum in Russia on April 25, 1993, that was free and fair, and that reflected the support of the Russian people for the process of continued and strengthened democratic and economic reform, represents an important and encouraging hallmark in this ongoing process.

“(5) There remain in force many United States laws that are relics of the Cold War, and repeals or revisions of these provisions can play an important role in efforts to foster and strengthen the bonds of trust and friendship, as well as mutually beneficial trade and economic relations, between the United States and Russia, the United States and Ukraine, and the United States and the other independent states of the former Soviet Union.

