§ 1022c. Accountability and evaluation(a) Eligible partnership evaluationEach eligible partnership submitting an application for a grant under this part shall establish, and include in such application, an evaluation plan that includes strong and measurable performance objectives. The plan shall include objectives and measures for increasing—(1) achievement for all prospective and new teachers, as measured by the eligible partnership;

(2) teacher retention in the first three years of a teacher’s career;

(3) improvement in the pass rates and scaled scores for initial State certification or licensure of teachers; and

(4)(A) the percentage of highly qualified teachers hired by the high-need local educational agency participating in the eligible partnership;

(B) the percentage of highly qualified teachers hired by the high-need local educational agency who are members of underrepresented groups;

(C) the percentage of highly qualified teachers hired by the high-need local educational agency who teach high-need academic subject areas (such as reading, mathematics, science, and foreign language, including less commonly taught languages and critical foreign languages);

(D) the percentage of highly qualified teachers hired by the high-need local educational agency who teach in high-need areas (including special education, language instruction educational programs for limited English proficient students, and early childhood education);

(E) the percentage of highly qualified teachers hired by the high-need local educational agency who teach in high-need schools, disaggregated by the elementary school and secondary school levels;

(F) as applicable, the percentage of early childhood education program classes in the geographic area served by the eligible partnership taught by early childhood educators who are highly competent; and

(G) as applicable, the percentage of teachers trained—(i) to integrate technology effectively into curricula and instruction, including technology consistent with the principles of universal design for learning; and

(ii) to use technology effectively to collect, manage, and analyze data to improve teaching and learning for the purpose of improving student academic achievement.




(b) InformationAn eligible partnership receiving a grant under this part shall ensure that teachers, principals, school superintendents, faculty, and leadership at institutions of higher education located in the geographic areas served by the eligible partnership are provided information, including through electronic means, about the activities carried out with funds under this part.


(c) Revised applicationIf the Secretary determines that an eligible partnership receiving a grant under this part is not making substantial progress in meeting the purposes, goals, objectives, and measures of the grant, as appropriate, by the end of the third year of a grant under this part, then the Secretary—(1) shall cancel the grant; and

(2) may use any funds returned or available because of such cancellation under paragraph (1) to—(A) increase other grant awards under this part; or

(B) award new grants to other eligible partnerships under this part.



(d) Evaluation and disseminationThe Secretary shall evaluate the activities funded under this part and report the findings regarding the evaluation of such activities to the authorizing committees. The Secretary shall broadly disseminate—(1) successful practices developed by eligible partnerships under this part; and

(2) information regarding such practices that were found to be ineffective.


(Pub. L. 89–329, title II, § 204, as added Pub. L. 110–315, title II, § 201(2), Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3146.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 204 of Pub. L. 89–329 was classified to section 1024 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 110–315.
Another prior section 204 of Pub. L. 89–329 was classified to section 1024 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 96–374.


