“SEC. 1402. ANNUAL REPORT ON TRANSFERS OF MILITARILY SENSITIVE TECHNOLOGY TO COUNTRIES AND ENTITIES OF CONCERN“(a) Annual Report.—Not later than March 30 of each year beginning in the year 2000 and ending in the year 2007, the President shall transmit to Congress a report on transfers to countries and entities of concern during the preceding calendar year of the most significant categories of United States technologies and technical information with potential military applications.

“(b) Contents of Report.—The report required by subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum, the following:“(1) An assessment by the Director of Central Intelligence of efforts by countries and entities of concern to acquire technologies and technical information referred to in subsection (a) during the preceding calendar year.

“(2) An assessment by the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of Central Intelligence, of the cumulative impact of licenses granted by the United States for exports of technologies and technical information referred to in subsection (a) to countries and entities of concern during the preceding 5-calendar year period on—“(A) the military capabilities of such countries and entities; and

“(B) countermeasures that may be necessary to overcome the use of such technologies and technical information.


“(3) An audit by the Inspectors General of the Departments of Defense, State, Commerce, and Energy, in consultation with the Director of Central Intelligence and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, of the policies and procedures of the United States Government with respect to the export of technologies and technical information referred to in subsection (a) to countries and entities of concern.

“(4) The status of the implementation or other disposition of recommendations included in reports of audits by Inspectors General that have been set forth in a previous annual report under this section pursuant to paragraph (3).


“(c) Additional Requirement for First Report.—The first annual report required by subsection (a) shall include an assessment by the Inspectors General of the Departments of State, Defense, Commerce, and the Treasury and the Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency of the adequacy of current export controls and counterintelligence measures to protect against the acquisition by countries and entities of concern of United States technology and technical information referred to in subsection (a).

“(d) Support of Other Agencies.—Upon the request of the officials responsible for preparing the assessments required by subsection (b), the heads of other departments and agencies shall make available to those officials all information necessary to carry out the requirements of this section.

“(e) Classified and Unclassified Reports.—Each report required by this section shall be submitted in classified form and unclassified form.

“(f) Definition.—As used in this section, the term ‘countries and entities of concern’ means—“(1) any country the government of which the Secretary of State has determined, for purposes of section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 [50 U.S.C. App. 2405(j)] or other applicable law, to have repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism;

“(2) any country that—“(A) has detonated a nuclear explosive device (as defined in section 830(4) of the Nuclear Proliferation Prevention Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 6305(4))); and

“(B) is not a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization; and


“(3) any entity that—“(A) is engaged in international terrorism or activities in preparation thereof; or

“(B) is directed or controlled by the government of a country described in paragraph (1) or (2).



