§ 277d–1. Authorizations for Mexican treaty projects; acquisition of lands for relocation purposes; contracts and conveyances
The Secretary of State, acting through the United States Commissioner, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico (herein referred to as the “Commission”), in connection with any project under the jurisdiction of the United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, is authorized: (a) to purchase, or condemn, lands, or interests in lands, for relocation of highways, roadways, railroads, telegraph, telephone, or electric transmission lines, or any other properties whatsoever, the relocation of which, in the judgment of the said Commissioner, is necessitated by the construction or operation and maintenance of any such project, and to perform any or all work involved in said relocations on said lands, or interests in lands, other lands, or interests in lands, owned and held by the United States in connection with the construction or operation and maintenance of any such project, or properties not owned by the United States; (b) to enter into contracts with the owners of the said properties whereby they undertake to acquire any, or all, property needed for said relocation, or to perform any, or all, work involved in said relocations; and (c) for the purpose of effecting completely said relocations, to convey, or exchange Government properties acquired or improved under clause (a) of this section, with or without improvements, or other properties owned and held by the United States in connection with the construction or operation and maintenance of said project, or to grant term or perpetual easements therein or thereover. Grants or conveyances hereunder shall be by instruments executed by the Secretary of State without regard to provisions of law governing the patenting of public lands.
(Sept. 13, 1950, ch. 948, title I, § 101, 64 Stat. 846.)

Short TitleAct Sept. 13, 1950, ch. 948, § 1, 64 Stat. 846, provided that: “This Act [enacting this section and sections 277d–2 to 277d–9 of this title] may be cited as the ‘American-Mexican Treaty Act of 1950’.”



