§ 1722. Definitions
For purposes of this subchapter, the term—(a) “Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians” means the sole successor to the Maliseet Tribe of Indians as constituted in aboriginal times in what is now the State of Maine, and all its predecessors and successors in interest. The Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians is represented, as of October 10, 1980, as to lands within the United States, by the Houlton Band Council of the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians;

(b) “land or natural resources” means any real property or natural resources, or any interest in or right involving any real property or natural resources, including but without limitation minerals and mineral rights, timber and timber rights, water and water rights, and hunting and fishing rights;

(c) “Land Acquisition Fund” means the Maine Indian Claims Land Acquisition Fund established under section 1724(c) of this title;

(d) “laws of the State” means the constitution, and all statutes, regulations, and common laws of the State of Maine and its political subdivisions and all subsequent amendments thereto or judicial interpretations thereof;

(e) “Maine Implementing Act” means section 1, section 30, and section 31, of the “Act to Implement the Maine Indian Claims Settlement” enacted by the State of Maine in chapter 732 of the public laws of 1979;

(f) “Passamaquoddy Indian Reservation” means those lands as defined in the Maine Implementing Act;

(g) “Passamaquoddy Indian Territory” means those lands as defined in the Maine Implementing Act;

(h) “Passamaquoddy Tribe” means the Passamaquoddy Indian Tribe, as constituted in aboriginal times and all its predecessors and successors in interest. The Passamaquoddy Tribe is represented, as of October 10, 1980, by the Joint Tribal Council of the Passamaquoddy Tribe, with separate councils at the Indian Township and Pleasant Point Reservations;

(i) “Penobscot Indian Reservation” means those lands as defined in the Maine Implementing Act;

(j) “Penobscot Indian Territory” means those lands as defined in the Maine Implementing Act;

(k) “Penobscot Nation” means the Penobscot Indian Nation as constituted in aboriginal times, and all its predecessors and successors in interest. The Penobscot Nation is represented, as of October 10, 1980, by the Penobscot Nation Governor and Council;

(l) “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior;

(m) “Settlement Fund” means the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Fund established under section 1724(a) of this title; and

(n) “transfer” includes but is not limited to any voluntary or involuntary sale, grant, lease, allotment, partition, or other conveyance; any transaction the purpose of which was to effect a sale, grant, lease, allotment, partition, or conveyance; and any act, event, or circumstance that resulted in a change in title to, possession of, dominion over, or control of land or natural resources.

(Pub. L. 96–420, § 3, Oct. 10, 1980, 94 Stat. 1786.)
