§ 7263a. Eligibility and application requirements(a) Eligible applicantsIn order to be eligible to receive an award under this subpart, an applicant shall—(1) be an entity (such as a foundation, museum, library, for-profit business, public or private nonprofit organization, or community-based organization), an institution of higher education, a State educational agency, a local education agency, or a consortium of such entities, institutions, or agencies; and

(2) have the capacity to significantly expand access to computers and related services for disadvantaged residents of economically distressed urban and rural communities (who would otherwise be denied such access).


(b) Application requirementsIn order to receive an award under this subpart, an eligible applicant shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, and containing such information, as the Secretary may require. The application shall include each of the following:(1) A description of the proposed project, including a description of the magnitude of the need for the services and how the project would expand access to information technology and related services to disadvantaged residents of an economically distressed urban or rural community.

(2) A demonstration of—(A) the commitment, including the financial commitment, of entities (such as institutions, organizations, business and other groups in the community) that will provide support for the creation, expansion, and continuation of the proposed project; and

(B) the extent to which the proposed project coordinates with other appropriate agencies, efforts, and organizations providing services to disadvantaged residents of an economically distressed urban or rural community.


(3) A description of how the proposed project would be sustained once the Federal funds awarded under this subpart end.

(4) A plan for the evaluation of the program, which shall include benchmarks to monitor progress toward specific project objectives.


(c) Matching requirementsThe Federal share of the cost of any project funded under this subpart shall not exceed 50 percent. The non-Federal share of such project may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including services.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5512, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1843.)
