§ 9108. Policy research, analysis, data collection, and dissemination(a) In generalThe Director shall annually conduct policy research, analysis, and data collection to extend and improve the Nation’s museum, library, and information services.


(b) RequirementsThe policy research, analysis, and data collection shall be conducted in ongoing collaboration (as determined appropriate by the Director), and in consultation, with—(1) State library administrative agencies;

(2) national, State, and regional library and museum organizations; and

(3) other relevant agencies and organizations.


(c) ObjectivesThe policy research, analysis, and data collection shall be used to—(1) identify national needs for and trends in museum, library, and information services;

(2) measure and report on the impact and effectiveness of museum, library, and information services throughout the United States, including the impact of Federal programs authorized under this chapter;

(3) identify best practices; and

(4) develop plans to improve museum, library, and information services of the United States and to strengthen national, State, local, regional, and international communications and cooperative networks.


(d) DisseminationEach year, the Director shall widely disseminate, as appropriate to accomplish the objectives under subsection (c), the results of the policy research, analysis, and data collection carried out under this section.


(e) Authority to contractThe Director is authorized—(1) to enter into contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and other arrangements with Federal agencies and other public and private organizations to carry out the objectives under subsection (c); and

(2) to publish and disseminate, in a form determined appropriate by the Director, the reports, findings, studies, and other materials prepared under paragraph (1).


(f) Authorization of appropriations(1) In generalThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $3,500,000 for fiscal year 2011 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2012 through 2016.


(2) Availability of fundsSums appropriated under paragraph (1) for any fiscal year shall remain available for obligation until expended.



(Pub. L. 94–462, title II, § 210, as added Pub. L. 108–81, title I, § 105, Sept. 25, 2003, 117 Stat. 996; amended Pub. L. 111–340, title I, § 106, Dec. 22, 2010, 124 Stat. 3598.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title II of Pub. L. 94–462, known as the Museum and Library Services Act, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Amendments2010—Pub. L. 111–340 amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “From amounts described in sections 9123(c) and 9176(b) of this title, the Director shall carry out and publish analyses of the impact of museum and library services. Such analyses—
“(1) shall be conducted in ongoing consultation with—
“(A) State library administrative agencies;
“(B) State, regional, and national library and museum organizations; and
“(C) other relevant agencies and organizations;
“(2) shall identify national needs for, and trends of, museum and library services provided with funds made available under subchapters II and III of this chapter;
“(3) shall report on the impact and effectiveness of programs conducted with funds made available by the Institute in addressing such needs; and
“(4) shall identify, and disseminate information on, the best practices of such programs to the agencies and entities described in paragraph (1).”


