§ 5501. International negotiations concerning aviation security(a) United States policyIt is the policy of the United States—(1) to seek bilateral agreements to achieve United States aviation security objectives with foreign governments;

(2) to continue to press vigorously for security improvements through the Foreign Airport Security Act 11 See References in Text note below. and the foreign airport assessment program; and

(3) to continue to work through the International Civil Aviation Organization to improve aviation security internationally.


(b) Negotiations for aviation security(1) The Department of State, in consultation with the Department of Transportation, shall be responsible for negotiating requisite aviation security agreements with foreign governments concerning the implementation of United States rules and regulations which affect the foreign operations of United States air carriers, foreign air carriers, and foreign international airports. The Secretary of State is directed to enter, expeditiously, into negotiations for bilateral and multilateral agreements—(A) for enhanced aviation security objectives;

(B) to implement the Foreign Airport Security Act 1 and the foreign airport assessment program to the fullest extent practicable; and

(C) to achieve improved availability of passenger manifest information.


(2) A principal objective of bilateral and multilateral negotiations with foreign governments and the International Civil Aviation Organization shall be improved availability of passenger manifest information.


(Pub. L. 101–604, title II, § 201, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3081.)


References in TextNo act with the title Foreign Airport Security Act, referred to in subsecs. (a)(2) and (b)(1)(B), has been enacted. The Foreign Airport Security Act probably means part B (§§ 551–559) of title V of Pub. L. 99–83, Aug. 8, 1985, 99 Stat. 222. For complete classification of part B to the Code, see Tables.

Congressional FindingsPub. L. 101–604, § 2, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3066, provided that: 
“Congress finds that—
“(1) the safety and security of passengers of United States air carriers against terrorist threats should be given the highest priority by the United States Government;

“(2) the report of the President’s Commission on Aviation Security and Terrorism, dated May 15, 1990, found that current aviation security systems are inadequate to provide such protection;

“(3) the United States Government should immediately take steps to ensure fuller compliance with existing laws and regulations relating to aviation security;

“(4) the United States Government should work through the International Civil Aviation Organization and directly with foreign governments to enhance aviation security of foreign carriers and at foreign airports;

“(5) the United States Government should ensure that enhanced security measures are fully implemented by both United States and foreign air carriers;

“(6) all nations belonging to the Summit Seven should promptly amend the Bonn Declaration to extend sanctions for all terrorist acts, including attacks against airports and air carrier ticket offices;

“(7) the United States Government, in bilateral negotiations with foreign governments, should emphasize upgrading international aviation security objectives;

“(8) the United States Government should have in place a mechanism by which the Government notifies the public, on a case-by-case basis and through the application of a uniform national standard, of certain credible threats to civil aviation security;

“(9) the United States Government has a special obligation to United States victims of acts of terrorism directed against this Nation and should provide prompt assistance to the families of such victims and assure that fair and prompt compensation is provided to such victims and their families;

“(10) the United States should work with other nations to treat as outlaws state sponsors of terrorism, isolating such sponsors politically, economically, and militarily;

“(11) the United States must develop a clear understanding that state-sponsored terrorism threatens United States values and interests, and that active measures are needed to counter more effectively the terrorist threat; and

“(12) the United States must have the national will to take every feasible action to prevent, counter, and respond to terrorist activities.”





