§ 7231f. Use of funds(a) In generalGrant funds made available under this part may be used by an eligible local educational agency, or consortium of such agencies—(1) for planning and promotional activities directly related to the development, expansion, continuation, or enhancement of academic programs and services offered at magnet schools;

(2) for the acquisition of books, materials, and equipment, including computers and the maintenance and operation of materials, equipment, and computers, necessary to conduct programs in magnet schools;

(3) for the compensation, or subsidization of the compensation, of elementary school and secondary school teachers who are highly qualified, and instructional staff where applicable, who are necessary to conduct programs in magnet schools;

(4) with respect to a magnet school program offered to less than the entire student population of a school, for instructional activities that—(A) are designed to make available the special curriculum that is offered by the magnet school program to students who are enrolled in the school but who are not enrolled in the magnet school program; and

(B) further the purpose of this part;


(5) for activities, which may include professional development, that will build the recipient’s capacity to operate magnet school programs once the grant period has ended;

(6) to enable the local educational agency, or consortium of such agencies, to have more flexibility in the administration of a magnet school program in order to serve students attending a school who are not enrolled in a magnet school program; and

(7) to enable the local educational agency, or consortium of such agencies, to have flexibility in designing magnet schools for students in all grades.


(b) Special ruleGrant funds under this part may be used for activities described in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a) of this section only if the activities are directly related to improving student academic achievement based on the State’s challenging academic content standards and student academic achievement standards or directly related to improving student reading skills or knowledge of mathematics, science, history, geography, English, foreign languages, art, or music, or to improving vocational, technological, and professional skills.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5307, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1809.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 5307 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 7267 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


