§ 6934. State grant program(a) State grant programThe Secretary is authorized to make an award to a State educational agency that demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that such agency, through such agency’s programs and other Federal education programs, effectively provides for the education of limited English proficient children within the State.


(b) PaymentsThe amount paid to a State educational agency under subsection (a) of this section shall not exceed 5 percent of the total amount awarded to local educational agencies and entities within the State under subpart 1 of this part for the previous fiscal year, except that in no case shall the amount paid by the Secretary to any State educational agency under this subsection for any fiscal year be less than $100,000.


(c) Use of funds(1) In generalA State educational agency shall use funds awarded under this section—(A) to assist local educational agencies in the State with activities that—(i) consist of program design, capacity building, assessment of student academic achievement, program evaluation, and development of data collection and accountability systems for limited English proficient children; and

(ii) are aligned with State reform efforts; and


(B) to collect data on the State’s limited English proficient populations and document the services available to all such populations.


(2) TrainingThe State educational agency may also use funds provided under this section for the training of State educational agency personnel in educational issues affecting limited English proficient children.


(3) Special ruleRecipients of funds under this section shall not restrict the provision of services under this section to federally funded programs.



(d) State consultationA State educational agency receiving funds under this section shall consult with recipients of grants under this subpart and other individuals or organizations involved in the development or operation of programs serving limited English proficient children to ensure that such funds are used in a manner consistent with the requirements of this subpart.


(e) ApplicationsA State educational agency desiring to receive funds under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such form, and containing such information and assurances as the Secretary may require.


(f) Supplement, not supplantFederal funds made available under this section for any fiscal year shall be used by the State educational agency to supplement and, to the extent practical, to increase the State funds that, in the absence of such Federal funds, would be made available for the purposes described in this section, and in no case to supplant such State funds.


(g) Report to the SecretaryA State educational agency receiving an award under this section shall provide for the annual submission of a summary report to the Secretary describing such State’s use of the funds made available through the award.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title III, § 3224, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title III, § 301, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1719.)
