§ 1300i–8. Recognition and organization of the Yurok Tribe(a) Yurok Tribe(1) Those persons on the Settlement Roll who made a valid election pursuant to subsection (c) of section 1300i–5 of this title shall constitute the base membership roll for the Yurok Tribe whose status as an Indian tribe, subject to the adoption of the Interim Council resolution as required by subsection (d)(2) of this section, is hereby ratified and confirmed.

(2) The Indian Reorganization Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984; 25 U.S.C. 461 et seq.), as amended, is hereby made applicable to the Yurok Tribe and the tribe may organize under such Act as provided in this section.

(3) Within thirty days (30) after October 31, 1988, the Secretary, after consultation with the appropriate committees of Congress, shall appoint five (5) individuals who shall comprise the Yurok Transition Team which, pursuant to a budget approved by the Secretary, shall provide counseling and assistance, shall promote communication with potential members of the Yurok Tribe concerning the provisions of this subchapter, and shall study and investigate programs, resources, and facilities for consideration by the Interim Council. The Yurok Transition Team may receive grants and enter into contracts for the purpose of carrying out this section and section 1300i–9(a) of this title. Such grants and contracts shall be transferred to the Yurok Interim Council upon its organization. Any property acquired for or on behalf of the Yurok Transition Team shall be held in the name of the Yurok Tribe.


(b) Interim Council; establishmentThere shall be established an Interim Council of the Yurok Tribe to be composed of five members. The Interim Council shall represent the Yurok Tribe in the implementation of provisions of this subchapter, including the organizational provisions of this section, and subject to subsection (d) of this section shall be the governing body of the tribe until such time as a tribal council is elected under a constitution adopted pursuant to subsection (e) of this section.


(c) General council; election of Interim Council(1) Within 30 days after the date established pursuant to section 1300i–5(a)(4) of this title, the Secretary shall prepare a list of all persons eighteen years of age or older who have elected the Yurok Tribal Membership Option pursuant to section 1300i–5(c) of this title, which persons shall constitute the eligible voters of the Yurok Tribe for the purposes of this section, and shall provide written notice to such persons of the date, time, purpose, and order of procedure for the general council meeting to be scheduled pursuant to paragraph (2) for the consideration of the nomination of candidates for election to the Interim Council.

(2) Not earlier than 30 days before, nor later than 45 days after, the notice provided pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary shall convene a general council meeting of the eligible voters of the Yurok Tribe on or near the Yurok Reservation, to be conducted under such order of procedures as the Secretary determines appropriate, for the nomination of candidates for election of members of the Interim Council. No person shall be eligible for nomination who is not on the list prepared pursuant to this section.

(3) Within 45 days after the general council meeting held pursuant to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall hold an election by secret ballot, with absentee balloting and write-in voting to be permitted, to elect the five members of the Interim Council from among the nominations submitted to him from such general council meeting. The Secretary shall assure that notice of the time and place of such election shall be provided to eligible voters at least fifteen days before such election.

(4) The Secretary shall certify the results of such election and, as soon as possible, convene an organizational meeting of the newly-elected members of the Interim Council and shall provide such advice and assistance as may be necessary for such organization.

(5) Vacancies on the Interim Council shall be filled by a vote of the remaining members.


(d) Interim Council; authorities and dissolution(1) The Interim Council shall have no powers other than those given to it by this subchapter.

(2) The Interim Council shall have full authority to adopt a resolution—(i) waiving any claim the Yurok Tribe may have against the United States arising out of the provision of this subchapter, and

(ii) affirming tribal consent to the contribution of Yurok Escrow monies to the Settlement Fund, and for their use as payments to the Hoopa Tribe, and to individual Hoopa members, as provided in this subchapter, and

(iii) to receive grants from, and enter into contracts for, Federal programs, including those administered by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, with respect to Federal services and benefits for the tribe and its members.


(3) The Interim Council shall have such other powers, authorities, functions, and responsibilities as the Secretary may recognize, except that any contract or legal obligation that would bind the Yurok Tribe for a period in excess of two years from the date of the certification of the election by the Secretary shall be subject to disapproval and cancellation by the Secretary if the Secretary determines that such a contract or legal obligation is unnecessary to improve housing conditions of members of the Yurok Tribe, or to obtain other rights, privileges or benefits that are in the long-term interest of the Yurok Tribe.

(4) The Interim Council shall appoint, as soon as practical, a drafting committee which shall be responsible, in consultation with the Interim Council, the Secretary and members of the tribe, for the preparation of a draft constitution for submission to the Secretary pursuant to subsection (e) of this section.

(5) The Interim Council shall be dissolved effective with the election and installation of the initial tribe 11 So in original. Probably should be “tribal”. governing body elected pursuant to the constitution adopted under subsection (e) of this section or at the end of two years after such installation, whichever occurs first.


(e) Organization of Yurok TribeUpon written request of the Interim Council or the drafting committee and the submission of a draft constitution as provided in paragraph (4) of subsection (d) of this section, the Secretary shall conduct an election, pursuant to the provisions of the Indian Reorganization Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 461 et seq.) and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, for the adoption of such constitution and, working with the Interim Council, the election of the initial tribal governing body upon the adoption of such constitution.


(Pub. L. 100–580, § 9, Oct. 31, 1988, 102 Stat. 2932; Pub. L. 101–121, title III, § 315, Oct. 23, 1989, 103 Stat. 744; Pub. L. 101–301, § 9(3), May 24, 1990, 104 Stat. 211.)


References in TextThe Indian Reorganization Act, referred to in subsecs. (a)(2) and (e), is act June 18, 1934, ch. 576, 48 Stat. 984, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 461 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 461 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1990—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 101–301 substituted “counseling and assistance, shall” for “counseling,”.
1989—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 101–121 inserted provisions authorizing the Yurok Transition Team to receive grants and enter into contracts for the purpose of carrying out this section and section 1300i–9(a) of this title and directing that such grants and contracts be transferred to the Yurok Interim Council upon its organization.


