§ 286mm. Measures to reduce military spending by developing nations(a) Development by Fund of means to measure military spending(1) Position of the United StatesThe United States Executive Director of the Fund shall use the voice and vote of the United States to urge the Fund, in consultation with the Bank, to continue to develop an economic methodology to measure the level of military spending by each developing country.


(2) Progress report to the CongressNo later than 1 year after October 24, 1992, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report on the status of the development by the Fund of a workable economic methodology to measure military spending by developing countries.



(b) Annual reports by Fund on levels of military spendingThe United States Executive Director of the Fund shall use the voice and vote of the United States to urge the Fund, beginning with 1994, to provide the Executive Board of the Fund with annual reports stating the estimate by the Fund of the level of military spending by each developing country in the immediately preceding calendar year (or, with respect to developing countries whose fiscal years are not calendar years, in the most recently completed fiscal year of the developing country), not later than the date of the annual fall Interim and Development Committee meetings.


(c) Analysis and assessment of military spending to be included in article IV consultations by FundThe United States Executive Director of the Fund shall use the voice and vote of the United States to urge the Fund, beginning no later than the date of the first report provided as described in subsection (b) of this section, to include in every article IV consultation with a developing country an analysis of the level of military spending by the developing country in the immediately preceding calendar year (or, with respect to developing countries whose fiscal years are not calendar years, in the most recently completed fiscal year of the developing country).


(July 31, 1945, ch. 339, § 60, as added Pub. L. 102–511, title X, § 1003, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3359.)


Change of Name
Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives by section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress. Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives abolished and replaced by Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred from Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.


