“SEC. 2162. TEMPORARY FINANCING OF SHORT-TIME COMPENSATION PAYMENTS IN STATES WITH PROGRAMS IN LAW.“(a) Payments to States.—“(1) In general.—Subject to paragraph (3), there shall be paid to a State an amount equal to 100 percent of the amount of short-time compensation paid under a short-time compensation program (as defined in section 3306(v) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as added by section 2161(a)) under the provisions of the State law.

“(2) Terms of payments.—Payments made to a State under paragraph (1) shall be payable by way of reimbursement in such amounts as the Secretary estimates the State will be entitled to receive under this section for each calendar month, reduced or increased, as the case may be, by any amount by which the Secretary finds that the Secretary’s estimates for any prior calendar month were greater or less than the amounts which should have been paid to the State. Such estimates may be made on the basis of such statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the Secretary and the State agency of the State involved.

“(3) Limitations on payments.—“(A) General payment limitations.—No payments shall be made to a State under this section for short-time compensation paid to an individual by the State during a benefit year in excess of 26 times the amount of regular compensation (including dependents’ allowances) under the State law payable to such individual for a week of total unemployment.

“(B) Employer limitations.—No payments shall be made to a State under this section for benefits paid to an individual by the State under a short-time compensation program if such individual is employed by the participating employer on a seasonal, temporary, or intermittent basis.



“(b) Applicability.—“(1) In general.—Payments to a State under subsection (a) shall be available for weeks of unemployment—“(A) beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Feb. 22, 2012]; and

“(B) ending on or before the date that is 3 years and 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.


“(2) Three-year funding limitation for combined payments under this section and section 2163.—States may receive payments under this section and section 2163 with respect to a total of not more than 156 weeks.


“(c) Two-Year Transition Period for Existing Programs.—During any period that the transition provision under section 2161(a)(3) [of Pub. L. 112–96, set out as a note under section 3306 of this title] is applicable to a State with respect to a short-time compensation program, such State shall be eligible for payments under this section. Subject to paragraphs (1)(B) and (2) of subsection (b), if at any point after the date of the enactment of this Act the State enacts a State law providing for the payment of short-time compensation under a short-time compensation program that meets the definition of such a program under section 3306(v) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as added by section 2161(a), the State shall be eligible for payments under this section after the effective date of such enactment.

“(d) Funding and Certifications.—“(1) Funding.—There are appropriated, out of moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary for purposes of carrying out this section.

“(2) Certifications.—The Secretary shall from time to time certify to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment to each State the sums payable to such State under this section.


“(e) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Labor.

“(2) State; state agency; state law.—The terms ‘State’, ‘State agency’, and ‘State law’ have the meanings given those terms in section 205 of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 [Pub. L. 91–373] (26 U.S.C. 3304 note).


