§ 6931. Authority(a) In generalThe Secretary is authorized to conduct data collection, dissemination, research, and ongoing program evaluation activities in accordance with the provisions of this subpart for the purpose of improving language instruction educational programs and special alternative instruction programs for limited English proficient children.


(b) Competitive awardsResearch and program evaluation activities carried out under this subpart shall be supported through competitive grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements awarded to institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations, State educational agencies, and local educational agencies.


(c) AdministrationThe Secretary shall conduct data collection, dissemination, and ongoing program evaluation activities authorized by this subpart through the Office of English Language Acquisition, Language Enhancement, and Academic Achievement for Limited English Proficient Students.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title III, § 3221, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title III, § 301, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1717.)

Information Regarding Bilingual EducationPub. L. 100–297, title VI, § 6213, Apr. 28, 1988, 102 Stat. 429, as amended by Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1042(a), Dec. 21, 1995, 109 Stat. 715, provided that: 
“The Secretary shall collect data for program management and accountability purposes regarding—
“(1) a national assessment of the educational needs of children and other persons with limited English proficiency and of the extent to which such needs are being met from Federal, State, and local efforts;

“(2) a plan, including cost estimates, to be carried out during the 5-year period beginning on such date [sic], for extending programs of bilingual education and bilingual vocational and adult education programs to all such preschool and elementary schoolchildren and other persons of limited English proficiency, including a phased plan for the training of the necessary teachers and other education personnel necessary for such purpose;

“(3) a statement of the activities intended to be carried out during the succeeding period, including an estimate of the cost of such activities; and

“(4)(A) an assessment of the number of teachers and other educational personnel needed to carry out programs of bilingual education under such title [sic] and those carried out under other programs for persons of limited English proficiency;

“(B) a statement describing the activities carried out thereunder designed to prepare teachers and other educational personnel for such programs; and

“(C) the number of other educational personnel needed to carry out programs of bilingual education in the States.”






