§ 512. National ITS program plan(a) In General.—(1) Updates.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the SAFETEA–LU, the Secretary, in consultation with interested stakeholders (including State transportation departments) shall develop a 5-year National Intelligent Transportation System (in this section referred to as “ITS”) program plan.

(2) Scope.—The National ITS program plan shall—(A) specify the goals, objectives, and milestones for the research and deployment of intelligent transportation systems in the contexts of—(i) major metropolitan areas;

(ii) smaller metropolitan and rural areas; and

(iii) commercial vehicle operations;


(B) specify the manner in which specific programs and projects will achieve the goals, objectives, and milestones referred to in subparagraph (A), including consideration of a 5-year timeframe for the goals and objectives;

(C) identify activities that provide for the dynamic development, testing, and necessary revision of standards and protocols to promote and ensure interoperability in the implementation of intelligent transportation system technologies, including actions taken to establish standards; and

(D) establish a cooperative process with State and local governments for—(i) determining desired surface transportation system performance levels; and

(ii) developing plans for accelerating the incorporation of specific intelligent transportation system capabilities into surface transportation systems.




(b) Reporting.—The National ITS program plan shall be submitted and biennially updated as part of the transportation research and development strategic plan developed under section 508.

(Added Pub. L. 109–59, title V, § 5301(a), Aug. 10, 2005, 119 Stat. 1804.)


References in TextThe date of enactment of the SAFETEA–LU, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 109–59, which was approved Aug. 10, 2005.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 512, formerly 511, added Pub. L. 90–495, § 30, Aug. 23, 1968, 82 Stat. 834; renumbered § 512, Pub. L. 91–605, title I, § 117(a), Dec. 31, 1970, 84 Stat. 1724, related to definitions for chapter, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 91–646, title II, § 220(a)(10), Jan. 2, 1971, 84 Stat. 1903.

Intelligent Transportation System ProgramPub. L. 109–59, title V, §§ 5303–5310, Aug. 10, 2005, 119 Stat. 1806–1813, provided that:
“SEC. 5303. GOALS AND PURPOSES.“(a) Goals.—The goals of the intelligent transportation system program include—“(1) enhancement of surface transportation efficiency and facilitation of intermodalism and international trade to enable existing facilities to meet a significant portion of future transportation needs, including public access to employment, goods, and services and to reduce regulatory, financial, and other transaction costs to public agencies and system users;

“(2) achievement of national transportation safety goals, including the enhancement of safe operation of motor vehicles and nonmotorized vehicles and improved emergency response to a crash, with particular emphasis on decreasing the number and severity of collisions;

“(3) protection and enhancement of the natural environment and communities affected by surface transportation, with particular emphasis on assisting State and local governments to achieve national environmental goals;

“(4) accommodation of the needs of all users of surface transportation systems, including operators of commercial motor vehicles, passenger motor vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles and pedestrians, including individuals with disabilities; and

“(5) improvement of the Nation’s ability to respond to security-related or other manmade emergencies and natural disasters and enhancement of national defense mobility.


“(b) Purposes.—The Secretary [of Transportation] shall implement activities under the intelligent system transportation program to, at a minimum—“(1) expedite, in both metropolitan and rural areas, deployment and integration of intelligent transportation systems for consumers of passenger and freight transportation;

“(2) ensure that Federal, State, and local transportation officials have adequate knowledge of intelligent transportation systems for consideration in the transportation planning process;

“(3) improve regional cooperation and operations planning for effective intelligent transportation system deployment;

“(4) promote the innovative use of private resources;

“(5) facilitate, in cooperation with the motor vehicle industry, the introduction of vehicle-based safety enhancing systems;

“(6) support the application of intelligent transportation systems that increase the safety and efficiency of commercial motor vehicle operations;

“(7) develop a workforce capable of developing, operating, and maintaining intelligent transportation systems; and

“(8) provide continuing support for operations and maintenance of intelligent transportation systems.


