§ 9105a. National Museum and Library Services Board(a) EstablishmentThere is established within the Institute a board to be known as the “National Museum and Library Services Board”.


(b) Membership(1) Number and appointmentThe Museum and Library Services Board shall be composed of the following:(A) The Director.

(B) The Deputy Director for the Office of Library Services.

(C) The Deputy Director for the Office of Museum Services.

(D) Ten members appointed by the President, from among individuals who are citizens of the United States and who are specially qualified by virtue of their education, training, or experience in the area of library services, or their commitment to libraries.

(E) Ten members appointed by the President, from among individuals who are citizens of the United States and who are specially qualified by virtue of their education, training, or experience in the area of museum services, or their commitment to museums.


(2) Special qualifications(A) Library membersOf the members of the Museum and Library Services Board appointed under paragraph (1)(D)—(i) five shall be professional librarians or information specialists, of whom—(I) not less than one shall be knowledgeable about electronic information and technical aspects of library and information services and sciences; and

(II) not less than one other shall be knowledgeable about the library and information service needs of underserved communities; and


(ii) the remainder shall have special competence in, or knowledge of, the needs for library and information services in the United States.


(B) Museum membersOf the members of the Museum and Library Services Board appointed under paragraph (1)(E)—(i) five shall be museum professionals who are or have been affiliated with—(I) resources that, collectively, are broadly representative of the curatorial, conservation, educational, and cultural resources of the United States; or

(II) museums that, collectively, are broadly representative of various types of museums, including museums relating to science, history, technology, art, zoos, botanical gardens, and museums designed for children; and


(ii) the remainder shall be individuals recognized for their broad knowledge, expertise, or experience in museums or commitment to museums.



(3) Geographic and other representationMembers of the Museum and Library Services Board shall be appointed to reflect persons from various geographic regions of the United States. The Museum and Library Services Board may not include, at any time, more than three appointive members from a single State. In making such appointments, the President shall give due regard to equitable representation of women, minorities, and persons with disabilities who are involved with museums and libraries.


(4) VotingThe Director, the Deputy Director of the Office of Library Services, and the Deputy Director of the Office of Museum Services shall be nonvoting members of the Museum and Library Services Board.



(c) Terms(1) In generalEach member of the Museum and Library Services Board appointed under subparagraph (D) or (E) of subsection (b)(1) of this section shall serve for a term of 5 years.


(2) Authority to adjust termsThe terms of the members appointed to the Museum and Library Service Board shall be adjusted by the President as necessary to ensure that the terms of not more than four members expire in the same year. Such adjustments shall be carried out through designation of the adjusted term at the time of appointment.


(3) VacanciesAny member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the term for which the predecessor of the member was appointed.


(4) ReappointmentNo appointive member of the Museum and Library Services Board who has been a member for more than 7 consecutive years shall be eligible for reappointment.


(5) Service until successor takes officeNotwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, an appointive member of the Museum and Library Services Board shall serve after the expiration of the term of the member until the successor to the member takes office.



(d) Duties and powers(1) In generalThe Museum and Library Services Board shall advise the Director on general policies with respect to the duties, powers, and authority of the Institute relating to museum, library, and information services.


(2) National awards and medalsThe Museum and Library Services Board shall advise the Director in awarding national awards and medals under section 9107 of this title.



(e) ChairpersonThe Director shall serve as Chairperson of the Museum and Library Services Board.


(f) Meetings(1) In generalThe Museum and Library Services Board shall meet not less than 2 times each year and at the call of the Director.


(2) VoteAll decisions by the Museum and Library Services Board with respect to the exercise of its duties and powers shall be made by a majority vote of the members of the Board who are present and authorized to vote.



(g) QuorumA majority of the voting members of the Museum and Library Services Board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of business at official meetings, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.


(h) Compensation and travel expenses(1) CompensationEach member of the Museum and Library Services Board who is not an officer or employee of the Federal Government may be compensated at a rate to be fixed by the President, but not to exceed the daily equivalent of the maximum annual rate of pay authorized for a position above grade GS–15 of the General Schedule under section 5108 of title 5, for each day (including travel time) during which such member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Museum and Library Services Board. Members of the Museum and Libraries Services Board who are full-time officers or employees of the Federal Government may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of their service on the Museum and Library Services Board.


(2) Travel expensesEach member of the Museum and Library Services Board shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.



(i) CoordinationThe Director, with the advice of the Museum and Library Services Board, shall coordinate the development and implementation of policies and activities as described in subsections (f) and (g) of section 9103 of this title.


(Pub. L. 94–462, title II, § 207, as added Pub. L. 108–81, title I, § 104(2), Sept. 25, 2003, 117 Stat. 993; amended Pub. L. 111–340, title I, § 104, Dec. 22, 2010, 124 Stat. 3597; Pub. L. 112–166, § 2(r), Aug. 10, 2012, 126 Stat. 1288.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 207 of Pub. L. 94–462 was renumbered section 208 and is classified to section 9106 of this title.
Another prior section 207 of Pub. L. 94–462 was classified to section 966 of this title prior to the general amendment of title II of Pub. L. 94–462 by Pub. L. 104–208.

Amendments2012—Subsec. (b)(1)(D), (E). Pub. L. 112–166 struck out “, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate” after “President”.
2010—Subsec. (b)(1)(D) to (F). Pub. L. 111–340, § 104(1)(A), redesignated subpars. (E) and (F) as (D) and (E), respectively, and struck out former subpar. (D) which read as follows: “The Chairman of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science.”
Subsec. (b)(2)(A). Pub. L. 111–340, § 104(1)(B)(i), substituted “(1)(D)” for “(1)(E)” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (b)(2)(B). Pub. L. 111–340, § 104(1)(B)(ii), substituted “(1)(E)” for “(1)(F)” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 111–340, § 104(1)(C), inserted “and” after “Library Services,” and struck out “, and the Chairman of the National Commission on Library and Information Science” before “shall”.
Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 111–340, § 104(2)(A), substituted “Each” for “Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, each” and “(D) or (E)” for “(E) or (F)”.
Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 111–340, § 104(2)(B), substituted “Authority to adjust terms” for “Initial Board appointments” in heading, struck out subpars. (A) and (B) related to treatment of members serving on effective date and first appointments and subpar. (C) designation and heading, and substituted “The terms of the members” for “The terms of the first members”.
Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 111–340, § 104(3)(A), substituted “relating to museum, library, and information services” for “relating to museum and library services, including financial assistance awarded under this chapter”.
Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 111–340, § 104(3)(B), added par. (2) and struck out former par. (2). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Museum and Library Services Board shall advise the Director in making awards under section 9107 of this title.”
Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 111–340, § 104(4), substituted “coordinate the development and implementation of policies and activities as described in subsections (f) and (g) of section 9103 of this title” for “take steps to ensure that the policies and activities of the Institute are coordinated with other activities of the Federal Government”.

Effective Date of 2012 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 112–166 effective 60 days after Aug. 10, 2012, and applicable to appointments made on and after that effective date, including any nomination pending in the Senate on that date, see section 6(a) of Pub. L. 112–166, set out as a note under section 113 of Title 6, Domestic Security.


