§ 8905. Democracy, civil society, governance, and technical assistance for Ukraine and other states in Central and Eastern Europe(a) In generalThe Secretary of State shall, subject to the availability of appropriations, directly or through nongovernmental organizations—(1) improve democratic governance, transparency, accountability, rule of law, and anti-corruption efforts in Ukraine;

(2) support efforts by the Government of Ukraine to foster greater unity among the people and regions of the country;

(3) support the people and Government of Ukraine in preparing to conduct and contest free and fair elections, including through domestic and international election monitoring;

(4) assist in diversifying Ukraine’s economy, trade, and energy supplies, including at the national, regional, and local levels;

(5) strengthen democratic institutions and political and civil society organizations in Ukraine;

(6) expand free and unfettered access to independent media of all kinds in Ukraine and assist with the protection of journalists and civil society activists who have been targeted for free speech activities;

(7) support political and economic reform initiatives by Eastern Partnership countries; and

(8) support the efforts of the Government of Ukraine, civil society, and international organizations to enhance the economic and political empowerment of women in Ukraine and to prevent and address violence against women and girls in Ukraine, and support the inclusion of women in Ukraine in any negotiations to restore Ukraine’s security, independence, sovereignty, or territorial or economic integrity.


(b) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of State $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2015 to carry out the activities set forth in subsection (a). Amounts appropriated for the activities set forth in subsection (a) shall be used pursuant to the authorization and requirements contained in this section. Additional amounts may be authorized to be appropriated under other provisions of law.


(c) Strategy requirementNot later than 60 days after April 3, 2014, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a strategy to carry out the activities set forth in subsection (a).


(d) Notification requirement(1) In generalFunds appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant to subsection (b) may not be obligated until 15 days after the date on which the President has provided notice of intent to obligate such funds to the appropriate congressional committees.


(2) WaiverThe President may waive the notification requirement under paragraph (1) if the President determines that failure to do so would pose a substantial risk to human health or welfare, in which case notification shall be provided as early as practicable, but in no event later than three days after taking the action to which such notification requirement was applicable in the context of the circumstances necessitating such waiver.



(Pub. L. 113–95, § 6, Apr. 3, 2014, 128 Stat. 1091.)
