§ 7011. Definitions
Except as otherwise provided, in this subchapter:(1) ChildThe term “child” means any individual aged 3 through 21.


(2) Community-based organizationThe term “community-based organization” means a private nonprofit organization of demonstrated effectiveness, Indian tribe, or tribally sanctioned educational authority, that is representative of a community or significant segments of a community and that provides educational or related services to individuals in the community. Such term includes a Native Hawaiian or Native American Pacific Islander native language educational organization.


(3) Community collegeThe term “community college” means an institution of higher education as defined in section 1001 of this title that provides not less than a 2-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward a bachelor’s degree, including institutions receiving assistance under the Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities Assistance Act of 1978 [25 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.].


(4) DirectorThe term “Director” means the Director of the Office of English Language Acquisition, Language Enhancement, and Academic Achievement for Limited English Proficient Students established under section 3420 of this title.


(5) Family education programThe term “family education program” means a language instruction educational program or special alternative instruction program that—(A) is designed—(i) to help limited English proficient adults and out-of-school youths achieve English proficiency; and

(ii) to provide instruction on how parents and family members can facilitate the educational achievement of their children;


(B) when feasible, uses instructional programs based on models developed under the Even Start Family Literacy Programs, which promote adult literacy and train parents to support the educational growth of their children, the Parents as Teachers Program, and the Home Instruction Program for Preschool Youngsters; and

(C) gives preference to participation by parents and immediate family members of children attending school.


(6) Immigrant children and youthThe term “immigrant children and youth” means individuals who—(A) are aged 3 through 21;

(B) were not born in any State; and

(C) have not been attending one or more schools in any one or more States for more than 3 full academic years.


(7) Indian tribeThe term “Indian tribe” means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Native village or Regional Corporation or Village Corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act [43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.], that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.


(8) Language instruction educational programThe term “language instruction educational program” means an instruction course—(A) in which a limited English proficient child is placed for the purpose of developing and attaining English proficiency, while meeting challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards, as required by section 6311(b)(1) of this title; and

(B) that may make instructional use of both English and a child’s native language to enable the child to develop and attain English proficiency, and may include the participation of English proficient children if such course is designed to enable all participating children to become proficient in English and a second language.


(9) Native American and Native American languageThe terms “Native American” and “Native American language” shall have the meanings given such terms in section 2902 of title 25.


(10) Native Hawaiian or Native American Pacific Islander native language educational organizationThe term “Native Hawaiian or Native American Pacific Islander native language educational organization” means a nonprofit organization with—(A) a majority of its governing board and employees consisting of fluent speakers of the traditional Native American languages used in the organization’s educational programs; and

(B) not less than 5 years successful experience in providing educational services in traditional Native American languages.


(11) Native languageThe term “native language”, when used with reference to an individual of limited English proficiency, means—(A) the language normally used by such individual; or

(B) in the case of a child or youth, the language normally used by the parents of the child or youth.


(12) ParaprofessionalThe term “paraprofessional” means an individual who is employed in a preschool, elementary school, or secondary school under the supervision of a certified or licensed teacher, including individuals employed in language instruction educational programs, special education, and migrant education.


(13) Specially qualified agencyThe term “specially qualified agency” means an eligible entity, as defined in section 6871 of this title, in a State whose State educational agency—(A) does not participate in a program under subpart 1 of part A of this subchapter for a fiscal year; or

(B) submits a plan (or any amendment to a plan) that the Secretary, after reasonable notice and opportunity for a hearing, determines does not satisfy the requirements of such subpart.


(14) StateThe term “State” means each of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.


(15) Tribally sanctioned educational authorityThe term “tribally sanctioned educational authority” means—(A) any department or division of education operating within the administrative structure of the duly constituted governing body of an Indian tribe; and

(B) any nonprofit institution or organization that is—(i) chartered by the governing body of an Indian tribe to operate a school described in section 6822(a) of this title or otherwise to oversee the delivery of educational services to members of the tribe; and

(ii) approved by the Secretary for the purpose of carrying out programs under subpart 1 of part A of this subchapter for individuals served by a school described in section 6822(a) of this title.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title III, § 3301, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title III, § 301, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1729; amended Pub. L. 110–315, title IX, § 941(k)(2)(F)(i), Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3466.)


References in TextThe Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities Assistance Act of 1978, referred to in par. (3), is Pub. L. 95–471, Oct. 17, 1978, 92 Stat. 1325, which is classified principally to chapter 20 (§ 1801 et seq.) of Title 25, Indians. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1801 of Title 25 and Tables.
The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, referred to in par. (7), is Pub. L. 92–203, Dec. 18, 1971, 85 Stat. 688, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1601 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1601 of Title 43 and Tables.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 3301 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 6921 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.

Amendments2008—Par. (3). Pub. L. 110–315 substituted “the Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities Assistance Act of 1978” for “the Tribally Controlled College or University Assistance Act of 1978”.


