§ 6714. We the People program(a) The Citizen and the Constitution(1) Educational activitiesThe Center for Civic Education—(A) shall use funds made available under grants or contracts under section 6713(a)(1) of this title—(i) to continue and expand the educational activities of the program entitled the “We the People. . . The Citizen and the Constitution” program administered by such center;

(ii) to carry out activities to enhance student attainment of challenging academic content standards in civics and government;

(iii) to provide a course of instruction on the basic principles of the Nation’s constitutional democracy and the history of the Constitution of the United States, including the Bill of Rights;

(iv) to provide, at the request of a participating school, school and community simulated congressional hearings following the course of instruction described in clause (iii); and

(v) to provide an annual national competition of simulated congressional hearings for secondary school students who wish to participate in such a program; and


(B) may use funds made available under grants or contracts under section 6713(a)(1) of this title—(i) to provide advanced, sustained, and ongoing training of teachers about the Constitution of the United States and the political system of the United States;

(ii) to provide materials and methods of instruction, including teacher training, that utilize the latest advancements in educational technology; and

(iii) to provide civic education materials and services to address specific problems such as the prevention of school violence and the abuse of drugs and alcohol.



(2) Availability of programThe education program authorized under this subsection shall be made available to public and private elementary schools and secondary schools, including Bureau funded schools, in the 435 congressional districts, and in the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.



(b) Project Citizen(1) Educational activitiesThe Center for Civic Education—(A) shall use funds made available under grants or contracts under section 6713(a)(1) of this title—(i) to continue and expand the educational activities of the program entitled the “We the People. . . Project Citizen” program administered by the Center;

(ii) to carry out activities to enhance student attainment of challenging academic content standards in civics and government;

(iii) to provide a course of instruction at the middle school level on the roles of State and local governments in the Federal system established by the Constitution of the United States; and

(iv) to provide an annual national showcase or competition; and


(B) may use funds made available under grants or contracts under section 6713(a)(1) of this title—(i) to provide optional school and community simulated State legislative hearings;

(ii) to provide advanced, sustained, and ongoing training of teachers on the roles of State and local governments in the Federal system established by the Constitution of the United States;

(iii) to provide materials and methods of instruction, including teacher training, that utilize the latest advancements in educational technology; and

(iv) to provide civic education materials and services to address specific problems such as the prevention of school violence and the abuse of drugs and alcohol.



(2) Availability of programThe education program authorized under this subsection shall be made available to public and private middle schools, including Bureau funded schools, in the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.



(c) Bureau-funded school definedIn this section, the term “Bureau-funded school” has the meaning given such term in section 2026 of title 25.11 See References in Text note below.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2344, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title II, § 201, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1663.)


References in TextSection 2026 of title 25, referred to in subsec. (c), was omitted in the general amendment of chapter 22 of Title 25, Indians, by Pub. L. 107–110, title X, § 1042, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 2007. See section 2021 of Title 25.


