§ 1161b. Mathematics and science scholars program(a) Program authorizedFrom the amounts appropriated under subsection (f), the Secretary is authorized to award grants to States, on a competitive basis, to enable the States to encourage students to pursue a rigorous course of study, beginning in secondary school and continuing through the students’ postsecondary education, in science, technology, engineering, mathematics, or a health-related field.


(b) Applications(1) In generalA State that desires a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require. A State may submit an application to receive a grant under subsection (c) or (d), or both.


(2) Contents of applicationEach application shall include a description of—(A) the program or programs for which the State is applying;

(B) if applicable, the priority set by the Governor pursuant to subsection (c)(4) or (d)(3); and

(C) how the State will meet the requirements of subsection (e).



(c) Mathematics and science scholars program(1) Grant for scholarshipsThe Secretary shall award grants under this subsection to provide scholarship support to eligible students.


(2) Eligible studentsA student is eligible for a scholarship under this subsection if the student—(A) meets the requirements of section 1091(a) of this title;

(B) is a full-time student in the student’s first year of undergraduate study; and

(C) has completed a rigorous secondary school curriculum in mathematics and science.


(3) Rigorous curriculumEach participating State shall determine the requirements for a rigorous secondary school curriculum in mathematics and science described in paragraph (2)(C).


(4) Priority for scholarshipsThe Governor of a State may set a priority for awarding scholarships under this subsection for particular eligible students, such as students attending schools in high-need local educational agencies (as defined in section 1021 of this title), students who are from groups underrepresented in the fields of mathematics, science, and engineering, students served by local educational agencies that do not meet or exceed State standards in mathematics and science, or other high-need students.


(5) Amount and duration of scholarshipThe Secretary shall award a grant under this subsection to provide scholarships—(A) in an amount that does not exceed $5,000 per student; and

(B) for not more than one year of undergraduate study.



(d) STEM or health-related scholars program(1) Grant for scholarshipsThe Secretary shall award grants under this subsection to provide scholarship support to eligible students.


(2) Eligible studentsA student is eligible for scholarship under this subsection if the student—(A) meets the requirements of section 1091(a) of this title;

(B) is a full-time student who has completed at least the first year of undergraduate study;

(C) is enrolled in a program of undergraduate instruction leading to a bachelor’s degree with a major in science, technology, engineering, mathematics, or a health-related field; and

(D) has obtained a cumulative grade point average of at least a 3.0 (or the equivalent as determined under regulations prescribed by the Secretary) at the end of the most recently completed term.


(3) Priority for scholarshipsThe Governor of a State may set a priority for awarding scholarships under this subsection for students agreeing to work in areas of science, technology, engineering, mathematics, or health-related fields.


(4) Amount and duration of scholarshipThe Secretary shall award a grant under this subsection to provide scholarships—(A) in an amount that does not exceed $5,000 per student for an academic year; and

(B) in an aggregate amount that does not exceed $20,000 per student.



(e) Matching requirementIn order to receive a grant under this section, a State shall provide matching funds for the scholarships awarded under this section in an amount equal to 50 percent of the Federal funds received.


(f) AuthorizationThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2009 and each of the five succeeding fiscal years.


(g) DefinitionThe term “Governor” means the chief executive officer of a State.


(Pub. L. 89–329, title VIII, § 802, as added Pub. L. 110–315, title VIII, § 801, Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3381; amended Pub. L. 111–39, title VIII, § 801(1), July 1, 2009, 123 Stat. 1955.)

Amendments2009—Subsec. (d)(2)(D). Pub. L. 111–39 substituted “regulations” for “regulation”.

Effective Date of 2009 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 111–39 effective as if enacted on the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–315 (Aug. 14, 2008), see section 3 of Pub. L. 111–39, set out as a note under section 1001 of this title.


