§ 2452b. International expositions(a) LimitationExcept as provided in subsection (b) of this section and notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Department of State may not obligate or expend any funds appropriated to the Department of State for a United States pavilion or other major exhibit at any international exposition or world’s fair registered by the Bureau of International Expositions in excess of amounts expressly authorized and appropriated for such purpose.


(b) Exceptions(1) In generalThe Department of State is authorized to utilize its personnel and resources to carry out the responsibilities of the Department for the following:(A) Administrative services, including legal and other advice and contract administration, under section 2452(a)(3) of this title related to United States participation in international fairs and expositions abroad. Such administrative services may not include capital expenses, operating expenses, or travel or related expenses (other than such expenses as are associated with the provision of administrative services by employees of the Department of State).

(B) Activities under section 2455(f) of this title with respect to encouraging foreign governments, international organizations, and private individuals, firms, associations, agencies and other groups to participate in international fairs and expositions and to make contributions to be utilized for United States participation in international fairs and expositions.

(C) Encouraging private support of United States pavilions and exhibits at international fairs and expositions.


(2) Statutory constructionNothing in this subsection authorizes the use of funds appropriated to the Department of State to make payments for—(A) contracts, grants, or other agreements with any other party to carry out the activities described in this subsection; or

(B) the satisfaction of any legal claim or judgment or the costs of litigation brought against the Department of State arising from activities described in this subsection.



(c) NotificationNo funds made available to the Department of State by any Federal agency to be used for a United States pavilion or other major exhibit at any international exposition or world’s fair registered by the Bureau of International Expositions may be obligated or expended unless the appropriate congressional committees are notified not less than 15 days prior to such obligation or expenditure.


(d) ReportsThe Commissioner General of a United States pavilion or other major exhibit at any international exposition or world’s fair registered by the Bureau of International Expositions shall submit to the Secretary of State and the appropriate congressional committees a report concerning activities relating to such pavilion or exhibit every 180 days while serving as Commissioner General and shall submit a final report summarizing all such activities not later than 1 year after the closure of the pavilion or exhibit.


(Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title II, § 204], Nov. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 1536, 1501A–420.)

Codification
Section is comprised of section 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title II, § 204] of div. B of Pub. L. 106–113. Subsec. (e) of section 204 of title II of section 1000(a)(7) of Pub. L. 106–113 repealed section 230 of Pub. L. 103–236 which was classified as a note under section 2452 of this title.
Section was enacted as part of the Admiral James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001, and not as part of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 which comprises this chapter.


Definitions
In subsecs. (c) and (d), “appropriate congressional committees” means the Committee on International Relations (now Committee on Foreign Affairs) of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, see section 1000(a)(7) [§ 3(1)] of Pub. L. 106–113, set out as a note under section 2651 of this title.


