§ 7269. Grants for the integration of schools and mental health systems(a) AuthorizationThe Secretary is authorized to award grants to, or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with, State educational agencies, local educational agencies, or Indian tribes, for the purpose of increasing student access to quality mental health care by developing innovative programs to link local school systems with the local mental health system.


(b) DurationWith respect to a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement awarded or entered into under this section, the period during which payments under such grant, contract or agreement are made to the recipient may not exceed 5 years.


(c) Use of fundsA State educational agency, local educational agency, or Indian tribe that receives a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under this section shall use amounts made available through such grant, contract, or cooperative agreement for the following:(1) To enhance, improve, or develop collaborative efforts between school-based service systems and mental health service systems to provide, enhance, or improve prevention, diagnosis, and treatment services to students.

(2) To enhance the availability of crisis intervention services, appropriate referrals for students potentially in need of mental health services, and ongoing mental health services.

(3) To provide training for the school personnel and mental health professionals who will participate in the program carried out under this section.

(4) To provide technical assistance and consultation to school systems and mental health agencies and families participating in the program carried out under this section.

(5) To provide linguistically appropriate and culturally competent services.

(6) To evaluate the effectiveness of the program carried out under this section in increasing student access to quality mental health services, and make recommendations to the Secretary about sustainability of the program.


(d) ApplicationsTo be eligible to receive a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under this section, a State educational agency, local educational agency, or Indian tribe shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require. The application shall include each of the following:(1) A description of the program to be funded under the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement.

(2) A description of how such program will increase access to quality mental health services for students.

(3) A description of how the applicant will establish a crisis intervention program to provide immediate mental health services to the school community when necessary.

(4) An assurance that—(A) persons providing services under the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement are adequately trained to provide such services;

(B) the services will be provided in accordance with subsection (c) of this section;

(C) teachers, principal administrators, and other school personnel are aware of the program; and

(D) parents of students participating in services under this section will be involved in the design and implementation of the services.


(5) An explanation of how the applicant will support and integrate existing school-based services with the program to provide appropriate mental health services for students.

(6) An explanation of how the applicant will establish a program that will support students and the school in maintaining an environment conducive to learning.


(e) Interagency agreements(1) Designation of lead agencyThe recipient of each grant, contract, or cooperative agreement shall designate a lead agency to direct the establishment of an interagency agreement among local educational agencies, juvenile justice authorities, mental health agencies, and other relevant entities in the State, in collaboration with local entities and parents and guardians of students.


(2) ContentsThe interagency agreement shall ensure the provision of the services described in subsection (c) of this section, specifying with respect to each agency, authority, or entity—(A) the financial responsibility for the services;

(B) the conditions and terms of responsibility for the services, including quality, accountability, and coordination of the services; and

(C) the conditions and terms of reimbursement among the agencies, authorities, or entities that are parties to the interagency agreement, including procedures for dispute resolution.



(f) EvaluationThe Secretary shall evaluate each program carried out by a State educational agency, local educational agency, or Indian tribe under this section and shall disseminate the findings with respect to each such evaluation to appropriate public and private entities.


(g) Distribution of awardsThe Secretary shall ensure that grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements awarded or entered into under this section are equitably distributed among the geographical regions of the United States and among urban, suburban, and rural populations.


(h) Rule of constructionNothing in Federal law shall be construed—(1) to prohibit an entity involved with a program carried out under this section from reporting a crime that is committed by a student to appropriate authorities; or

(2) to prevent State law enforcement and judicial authorities from exercising their responsibilities with regard to the application of Federal and State law to crimes committed by a student.


(i) Supplement, not supplantAny services provided through programs carried out under this section must supplement, and not supplant, existing mental health services, including any services required to be provided under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.).


(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5541, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1851.)


References in TextThe Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsec. (i), is title VI of Pub. L. 91–230, Apr. 13, 1970, 84 Stat. 175, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1400 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1400 of this title and Tables.


