§ 5951. Findings on cooperative threat reduction
The Congress finds that it is in the national security interest of the United States for the United States to do the following:(1) Facilitate, on a priority basis, the transportation, storage, safeguarding, and elimination of nuclear and other weapons of the independent states of the former Soviet Union, including—(A) the safe and secure storage of fissile materials derived from the elimination of nuclear weapons;

(B) the dismantlement of (i) intercontinental ballistic missiles and launchers for such missiles, (ii) submarine-launched ballistic missiles and launchers for such missiles, and (iii) heavy bombers; and

(C) the elimination of chemical, biological and other weapons capabilities.


(2) Facilitate, on a priority basis, the prevention of proliferation of weapons (and components of weapons) of mass destruction and destabilizing conventional weapons of the independent states of the former Soviet Union and the establishment of verifiable safeguards against the proliferation of such weapons and components.

(3) Facilitate, on a priority basis, the prevention of diversion of weapons-related scientific expertise of the independent states of the former Soviet Union to terrorist groups or third world countries.

(4) Support (A) the demilitarization of the defense-related industry and equipment of the independent states of the former Soviet Union, and (B) the conversion of such industry and equipment to civilian purposes and uses.

(5) Expand military-to-military and defense contacts between the United States and the independent states of the former Soviet Union.

(Pub. L. 103–160, div. A, title XII, § 1202, Nov. 30, 1993, 107 Stat. 1777.)

Short Title of 2003 AmendmentPub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXVI, § 3601, Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1822, provided that: “This title [enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and sections 1928, 5959, and 6321 of this title] may be cited as the ‘Nuclear Security Initiative Act of 2003’.”


Short TitlePub. L. 103–160, div. A, title XII, § 1201, Nov. 30, 1993, 107 Stat. 1777, provided that: “This title [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘Cooperative Threat Reduction Act of 1993’.”


Briefings on Dialogue Between the United States and the Russian Federation on Nuclear Arms, Missile Defense Systems, and Long-Range Conventional Strike SystemsPub. L. 112–239, div. A, title XII, § 1282, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2034, provided that:
“(a) Briefings.—Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 2, 2013], and not less than twice each year thereafter, the President, or the President’s designee, shall brief the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate on the dialogue between the United States and the Russian Federation on issues related to limits or controls on nuclear arms, missile defense systems, or long-range conventional strike systems.

“(b) Sense of Congress on Certain Agreements.—It is the sense of Congress that any agreement between the United States and the Russian Federation related to nuclear arms, missile defense systems, or long-range conventional strike systems obligating the United States to reduce or limit the Armed Forces or armaments of the United States in any militarily significant manner may be made only pursuant to the treaty-making power of the President as set forth in Article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of the United States.

“(c) Rule of Construction.—Nothing in this section shall be construed to be inconsistent with or to interfere with the practices, precedents, or oversight of the House of Representatives.”




Establishment of Interparliamentary Threat Reduction Working GroupPub. L. 108–136, div. C, title XXXVI, § 3622, Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1824, provided that:
“(a) Establishment of Working Group.—There is hereby established a working group to be known as the ‘Threat Reduction Working Group’ as an interparliamentary group of the Congress of the United States and the legislature of the Russian Federation.

“(b) Purpose of Working Group.—The purpose of the working group established by subsection (a) shall be to explore means to enhance cooperation between the United States and the Russian Federation with respect to nuclear nonproliferation and security and such other issues related to reducing the dangers of weapons of mass destruction as the members of the working group consider appropriate.

“(c) Membership.—(1) The majority leader of the Senate, after consultation with the minority leader of the Senate, shall appoint not more than 10 Senators to the working group established by subsection (a).

“(2) The Speaker of the House of Representatives, after consultation with the minority leader of the House of Representatives, shall appoint not more than 30 Members of the House to the working group.”






