§ 6394. State applications; services(a) Application requiredAny State desiring to receive a grant under this part for any fiscal year shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may require.


(b) Program informationEach such application shall include—(1) a description of how, in planning, implementing, and evaluating programs and projects assisted under this part, the State and its local operating agencies will ensure that the special educational needs of migratory children, including preschool migratory children, are identified and addressed through—(A) the full range of services that are available for migratory children from appropriate local, State, and Federal educational programs;

(B) joint planning among local, State, and Federal educational programs serving migrant children, including language instruction educational programs under part A or B of subchapter III of this chapter;

(C) the integration of services available under this part with services provided by those other programs; and

(D) measurable program goals and outcomes;


(2) a description of the steps the State is taking to provide all migratory students with the opportunity to meet the same challenging State academic content standards and challenging State student academic achievement standards that all children are expected to meet;

(3) a description of how the State will use funds received under this part to promote interstate and intrastate coordination of services for migratory children, including how, consistent with procedures the Secretary may require, the State will provide for educational continuity through the timely transfer of pertinent school records, including information on health, when children move from one school to another, whether or not such move occurs during the regular school year;

(4) a description of the State’s priorities for the use of funds received under this part, and how such priorities relate to the State’s assessment of needs for services in the State;

(5) a description of how the State will determine the amount of any subgrants the State will award to local operating agencies, taking into account the numbers and needs of migratory children, the requirements of subsection (d) of this section, and the availability of funds from other Federal, State, and local programs;

(6) such budgetary and other information as the Secretary may require; and

(7) a description of how the State will encourage programs and projects assisted under this part to offer family literacy services if the program or project serves a substantial number of migratory children who have parents who do not have a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent or who have low levels of literacy.


(c) AssurancesEach such application shall also include assurances, satisfactory to the Secretary, that—(1) funds received under this part will be used only—(A) for programs and projects, including the acquisition of equipment, in accordance with section 6396 of this title; and

(B) to coordinate such programs and projects with similar programs and projects within the State and in other States, as well as with other Federal programs that can benefit migratory children and their families;


(2) such programs and projects will be carried out in a manner consistent with the objectives of section 6314 of this title, subsections (b) and (d) of section 6315 of this title, subsections (b) and (c) of section 6321 of this title, and part I of this subchapter;

(3) in the planning and operation of programs and projects at both the State and local agency operating level, there is consultation with parent advisory councils for programs of 1 school year in duration, and that all such programs and projects are carried out—(A) in a manner that provides for the same parental involvement as is required for programs and projects under section 6318 of this title, unless extraordinary circumstances make such provision impractical; and

(B) in a format and language understandable to the parents;


(4) in planning and carrying out such programs and projects, there has been, and will be, adequate provision for addressing the unmet education needs of preschool migratory children;

(5) the effectiveness of such programs and projects will be determined, where feasible, using the same approaches and standards that will be used to assess the performance of students, schools, and local educational agencies under part A of this subchapter;

(6) to the extent feasible, such programs and projects will provide for—(A) advocacy and outreach activities for migratory children and their families, including informing such children and families of, or helping such children and families gain access to, other education, health, nutrition, and social services;

(B) professional development programs, including mentoring, for teachers and other program personnel;

(C) family literacy programs, including such programs that use models developed under Even Start;

(D) the integration of information technology into educational and related programs; and

(E) programs to facilitate the transition of secondary school students to postsecondary education or employment; and


(7) the State will assist the Secretary in determining the number of migratory children under paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(B)(i) of section 6393(a) of this title, through such procedures as the Secretary may require.


(d) Priority for servicesIn providing services with funds received under this part, each recipient of such funds shall give priority to migratory children who are failing, or most at risk of failing, to meet the State’s challenging State academic content standards and challenging State student academic achievement standards, and whose education has been interrupted during the regular school year.


(e) Continuation of servicesNotwithstanding any other provision of this part—(1) a child who ceases to be a migratory child during a school term shall be eligible for services until the end of such term;

(2) a child who is no longer a migratory child may continue to receive services for 1 additional school year, but only if comparable services are not available through other programs; and

(3) secondary school students who were eligible for services in secondary school may continue to be served through credit accrual programs until graduation.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1304, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1574.)

References to Parts A and B of Subchapter III Considered To Be References to Parts B and A of Subchapter IIIReferences to parts A and B of subchapter III of this chapter are considered to be references to parts B and A, respectively, of subchapter III of this chapter in certain fiscal years. See section 6801(c) of this title.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6394, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1304, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3587; amended Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(4) [div. B, title XVI, § 1605], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A–334, related to State applications and services, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


