§ 7161. Definitions
In this part:(1) Controlled substanceThe term “controlled substance” means a drug or other substance identified under Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V in section 812(c) of title 21.


(2) DrugThe term “drug” includes controlled substances; the illegal use of alcohol and tobacco; and the harmful, abusive, or addictive use of substances, including inhalants and anabolic steroids.


(3) Drug and violence preventionThe term “drug and violence prevention” means—(A) with respect to drugs, prevention, early intervention, rehabilitation referral, or education related to the illegal use of drugs;

(B) with respect to violence, the promotion of school safety, such that students and school personnel are free from violent and disruptive acts, including sexual harassment and abuse, and victimization associated with prejudice and intolerance, on school premises, going to and from school, and at school-sponsored activities, through the creation and maintenance of a school environment that is free of weapons and fosters individual responsibility and respect for the rights of others.


(4) Hate crimeThe term “hate crime” means a crime as described in section 1(b) of the Hate Crime Statistics Act of 1990.


(5) NonprofitThe term “nonprofit”, as applied to a school, agency, organization, or institution means a school, agency, organization, or institution owned and operated by one or more nonprofit corporations or associations, no part of the net earnings of which inures, or may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.


(6) Protective factor, buffer, or assetThe terms “protective factor”, “buffer”, and “asset” mean any one of a number of the community, school, family, or peer-individual domains that are known, through prospective, longitudinal research efforts, or which are grounded in a well-established theoretical model of prevention, and have been shown to prevent alcohol, tobacco, or illegal drug use, as well as violent behavior, by youth in the community, and which promote positive youth development.


(7) Risk factorThe term “risk factor” means any one of a number of characteristics of the community, school, family, or peer-individual domains that are known, through prospective, longitudinal research efforts, to be predictive of alcohol, tobacco, and illegal drug use, as well as violent behavior, by youth in the school and community.


(8) School-aged populationThe term “school-aged population” means the population aged five through 17, as determined by the Secretary on the basis of the most recent satisfactory data available from the Department of Commerce.


(9) School based mental health services providerThe term “school based mental health services provider” includes a State licensed or State certified school counselor, school psychologist, school social worker, or other State licensed or certified mental health professional qualified under State law to provide such services to children and adolescents.


(10) School personnelThe term “school personnel” includes teachers, principals, administrators, counselors, social workers, psychologists, nurses, librarians, and other support staff who are employed by a school or who perform services for the school on a contractual basis.


(11) School resource officerThe term “school resource officer” means a career law enforcement officer, with sworn authority, deployed in community oriented policing, and assigned by the employing police department to a local educational agency to work in collaboration with schools and community based organizations to—(A) educate students in crime and illegal drug use prevention and safety;

(B) develop or expand community justice initiatives for students; and

(C) train students in conflict resolution, restorative justice, and crime and illegal drug use awareness.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4151, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title IV, § 401, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1763.)


References in TextSection 1(b) of the Hate Crime Statistics Act of 1990, referred to in par. (4), is section 1(b) of Pub. L. 101–275, which is set out as a note under section 534 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


