§ 7213a. State applications(a) Application requirementsAny State that desires to receive assistance under this part shall submit to the Secretary an application that includes each of the following:(1) Designation of the State educational agency as the State agency responsible for administration and supervision of programs assisted under this part.

(2) Provision for an annual statewide summary of how assistance under this part is contributing toward improving student academic achievement or improving the quality of education for students.

(3) Information setting forth the allocation of funds required to implement section 7217a of this title.

(4) A provision that the State educational agency will keep such records, and provide such information to the Secretary, as may be required for fiscal audit and program evaluation (consistent with the responsibilities of the Secretary under this section).

(5) An assurance that, apart from providing technical and advisory assistance and monitoring compliance with this part, the State educational agency has not exercised, and will not exercise, any influence in the decisionmaking processes of local educational agencies as to the expenditure made pursuant to an application submitted under section 7215b of this title.

(6) An assurance that there is compliance with the specific requirements of this part.

(7) Provision for timely public notice and public dissemination of the information provided under paragraph (3).


(b) Statewide summaryThe statewide summary referred to in subsection (a)(2) of this section shall be submitted annually to the Secretary and shall be derived from the evaluation information submitted by local educational agencies to the State educational agency under section 7215b(b)(8) of this title. The State educational agency shall determine the format and content of such summary and may include in the summary statistical measures, such as the number of students served by each type of innovative assistance program described in section 7215 of this title and the number of teachers trained.


(c) Period of applicationAn application submitted by the State educational agency under subsection (a) of this section shall be for a period not to exceed 3 years. The agency may amend the application annually, as may be necessary to reflect changes, without filing a new application.


(d) Audit ruleA local educational agency that receives less than an average of $10,000 under this part for any 3 consecutive fiscal years shall not be audited more frequently than once every 5 years.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5122, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1780.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 5122 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 3192 of this title, prior to the general amendment of Pub. L. 89–10 by Pub. L. 103–382.


