§ 8514. Imposition of sanctions on certain persons who are responsible for or complicit in human rights abuses committed against citizens of Iran or their family members after the June 12, 2009, elections in Iran(a) In generalThe President shall impose sanctions described in subsection (c) with respect to each person on the list required by subsection (b).


(b) List of persons who are responsible for or complicit in certain human rights abuses(1) In generalNot later than 90 days after July 1, 2010, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a list of persons who are officials of the Government of Iran or persons acting on behalf of that Government (including members of paramilitary organizations such as Ansar-e-Hezbollah and Basij-e Mostaz’afin), that the President determines, based on credible evidence, are responsible for or complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, the commission of serious human rights abuses against citizens of Iran or their family members on or after June 12, 2009, regardless of whether such abuses occurred in Iran.


(2) Updates of listThe President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an updated list under paragraph (1)—(A) not later than 270 days after July 1, 2010, and every 180 days thereafter; and

(B) as new information becomes available.


(3) Form of report; public availability(A) FormThe list required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.


(B) Public availabilityThe unclassified portion of the list required by paragraph (1) shall be made available to the public and posted on the websites of the Department of the Treasury and the Department of State.



(4) Consideration of data from other countries and nongovernmental organizationsIn preparing the list required by paragraph (1), the President shall consider credible data already obtained by other countries and nongovernmental organizations, including organizations in Iran, that monitor the human rights abuses of the Government of Iran.



(c) Sanctions describedThe sanctions described in this subsection are ineligibility for a visa to enter the United States and sanctions pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), including blocking of property and restrictions or prohibitions on financial transactions and the exportation and importation of property, subject to such regulations as the President may prescribe, including regulatory exceptions to permit the United States to comply with the Agreement between the United Nations and the United States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, and other applicable international obligations.


(d) Termination of sanctionsThe provisions of this section shall terminate on the date on which the President determines and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the Government of Iran has—(1) unconditionally released all political prisoners, including the citizens of Iran detained in the aftermath of the June 12, 2009, presidential election in Iran;

(2) ceased its practices of violence, unlawful detention, torture, and abuse of citizens of Iran while engaging in peaceful political activity;

(3) conducted a transparent investigation into the killings, arrests, and abuse of peaceful political activists that occurred in the aftermath of the June 12, 2009, presidential election in Iran and prosecuted the individuals responsible for such killings, arrests, and abuse; and

(4) made public commitments to, and is making demonstrable progress toward—(A) establishing an independent judiciary; and

(B) respecting the human rights and basic freedoms recognized in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.



(Pub. L. 111–195, title I, § 105, July 1, 2010, 124 Stat. 1335.)


References in TextThe International Emergency Economic Powers Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is title II of Pub. L. 95–223, Dec. 28, 1977, 91 Stat. 1626, which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1701 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1701 of Title 50 and Tables.


Delegation of Functions
Ex. Ord. No. 13553, §§ 5–7, Sept. 28, 2010, 75 F.R. 60568, 60569, authorized the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to employ all powers granted to the President by subsecs. (a) to (c) of this section and to take such actions, including the promulgation of rules and regulations, as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of Ex. Ord. No. 13553, except that (1) the Secretary of State is authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by subsec. (a) with respect to imposition of the visa sanctions described in subsec. (c) and is further authorized to exercise the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by subsec. (c) with respect to the promulgation of rules and regulations related to the visa sanctions described therein; and (2) the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, is authorized to submit to Congress, as required by subsec. (b), the initial and updated lists of persons subject to visa sanctions and blockage of property pursuant to Ex. Ord. No. 13553.


