§ 80q–13. Grants by Secretary of the Interior to assist Indian organizations with respect to renovation and repair of museum facilities and exhibit facilities(a) GrantsThe Secretary of the Interior may make grants to Indian organizations, including Indian tribes, museums, cultural centers, educational institutions, libraries, and archives, for renovation and repair of museum facilities and exhibit facilities to enable such organizations to exhibit objects and artifacts on loan from the collections of the Smithsonian Institution or from other sources. Such grants may be made only from the Tribal Museum Endowment Fund.


(b) Indian organization contributionIn making grants under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary may require the organization receiving the grant to contribute, in cash or in kind, not more than 50 percent of the cost of the renovation or repair involved. Such contribution may be derived from any source other than the Tribal Museum Endowment Fund.


(c) Tribal Museum Endowment Fund(1) EstablishmentThere is established in the Treasury a fund, to be known as the “Tribal Museum Endowment Fund” (hereinafter in this subsection referred to as the “Fund”) for the purpose of making grants under subsection (a) of this section. The Fund shall consist of (A) amounts deposited and credited under paragraph (2), (B) obligations obtained under paragraph (3), and (C) amounts appropriated pursuant to authorization under paragraph (5).


(2) Deposits and creditsThe Secretary of the Interior is authorized to accept contributions to the Fund from non-Federal sources and shall deposit such contributions in the Fund. The Secretary of the Treasury shall credit to the Fund the interest on, and the proceeds from sale and redemption of, obligations held in the Fund.


(3) InvestmentsThe Secretary of the Treasury may invest any portion of the Fund in interest-bearing obligations of the United States. Such obligations may be acquired on original issue or in the open market and may be held to maturity or sold in the open market. In making investments for the Fund, the Secretary of the Treasury shall consult the Secretary of the Interior with respect to maturities, purchases, and sales, taking into consideration the balance necessary to meet current grant requirements.


(4) Expenditures and capital preservationSubject to appropriation, amounts derived from interest shall be available for expenditure from the Fund. The capital of the Fund shall not be available for expenditure.


(5) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to the Fund $2,000,000 for each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 1992.



(Pub. L. 101–185, § 15, Nov. 28, 1989, 103 Stat. 1345.)

Codification
Subsec. (d) of this section, which required the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to submit an annual report to Congress on activities under this section, terminated, effective May 15, 2000, pursuant to section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66, as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance. See, also, page 108 of House Document No. 103–7.

Native American Cultural Center in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Feasibility Study and ReportPub. L. 102–196, Dec. 9, 1991, 105 Stat. 1620, directed Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study and make a report to Congress on the feasibility of establishing a Native American Cultural Center in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and made appropriations for that purpose.


