§ 7273b. Applications(a) SubmissionEach nonprofit organization (including a statewide nonprofit organization), or a consortia of such an organization and a local educational agency, that desires a grant under this subpart shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may require.


(b) ContentsEach application submitted under subsection (a) of this section, at a minimum, shall include assurances that the organization or consortium will—(1)(A) be governed by a board of directors the membership of which includes parents; or

(B) be an organization or consortium that represents the interests of parents;


(2) establish a special advisory committee the membership of which includes—(A) parents of children enrolled in elementary schools and secondary schools, who shall constitute a majority of the members of the special advisory committee;

(B) representatives of education professionals with expertise in improving services for disadvantaged children; and

(C) representatives of local elementary schools and secondary schools, including students and representatives from local youth organizations;


(3) use at least 50 percent of the funds received under this subpart in each fiscal year to serve areas with high concentrations of low-income families, in order to serve parents who are severely educationally or economically disadvantaged;

(4) operate a center of sufficient size, scope, and quality to ensure that the center is adequate to serve the parents in the area;

(5) serve both urban and rural areas;

(6) design a center that meets the unique training, information, and support needs of parents of children enrolled in elementary schools and secondary schools, particularly such parents who are educationally or economically disadvantaged;

(7) demonstrate the capacity and expertise to conduct the effective training, information, and support activities for which assistance is sought;

(8) network with—(A) local educational agencies and schools;

(B) parents of children enrolled in elementary schools and secondary schools;

(C) parent training and information centers assisted under section 1471 of this title;

(D) clearinghouses; and

(E) other organizations and agencies;


(9) focus on serving parents of children enrolled in elementary schools and secondary schools who are parents of low-income, minority, and limited English proficient children;

(10) use at least 30 percent of the funds received under this subpart in each fiscal year to establish, expand, or operate Parents as Teachers programs, Home Instruction for Preschool Youngsters programs, or other early childhood parent education programs;

(11) provide assistance to parents in areas such as understanding State and local standards and measures of student and school academic achievement;

(12) work with State educational agencies and local educational agencies to determine parental needs and the best means for delivery of services;

(13) identify and coordinate Federal, State, and local services and programs that support improved student learning, including programs supported under this chapter, violence prevention programs, nutrition programs, housing programs, Head Start programs, adult education, and job training; and

(14) work with and foster partnerships with other agencies that provide programs and deliver services described in paragraph (13) to make such programs and services more accessible to children and families.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5563, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1857; amended Pub. L. 108–446, title III, § 305(g)(3), Dec. 3, 2004, 118 Stat. 2805.)

Amendments2004—Subsec. (b)(8)(C). Pub. L. 108–446 substituted “section 1471” for “section 1482”.


