§ 7133. Hate crime prevention(a) Grant authorizationFrom funds made available to carry out this subpart under section 7103(2) of this title the Secretary may make grants to local educational agencies and community-based organizations for the purpose of providing assistance to localities most directly affected by hate crimes.


(b) Use of funds(1) Program developmentGrants under this section may be used to improve elementary and secondary educational efforts, including—(A) development of education and training programs designed to prevent and to reduce the incidence of crimes and conflicts motivated by hate;

(B) development of curricula for the purpose of improving conflict or dispute resolution skills of students, teachers, and administrators;

(C) development and acquisition of equipment and instructional materials to meet the needs of, or otherwise be part of, hate crime or conflict programs; and

(D) professional training and development for teachers and administrators on the causes, effects, and resolutions of hate crimes or hate-based conflicts.


(2) ApplicationIn order to be eligible to receive a grant under this section for any fiscal year, a local educational agency, or a local educational agency in conjunction with a community-based organization, shall submit an application to the Secretary in such form and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(3) RequirementsEach application under paragraph (2) shall include—(A) a request for funds for the purpose described in this section;

(B) a description of the schools and communities to be served by the grants; and

(C) assurances that Federal funds received under this section shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, non-Federal funds.


(4) Comprehensive planEach application shall include a comprehensive plan that contains—(A) a description of the hate crime or conflict problems within the schools or the community targeted for assistance;

(B) a description of the program to be developed or augmented by such Federal and matching funds;

(C) assurances that such program or activity shall be administered by or under the supervision of the applicant;

(D) procedures for the proper and efficient administration of such program; and

(E) fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be necessary to ensure prudent use, proper disbursement, and accurate accounting of funds received under this section.



(c) Award of grants(1) Selection of recipientsThe Secretary shall consider the incidence of crimes and conflicts motivated by bias in the targeted schools and communities in awarding grants under this section.


(2) Geographic distributionThe Secretary shall attempt, to the extent practicable, to achieve an equitable geographic distribution of grant awards.


(3) Dissemination of informationThe Secretary shall attempt, to the extent practicable, to make available information regarding successful hate crime prevention programs, including programs established or expanded with grants under this section.



(d) ReportsThe Secretary shall submit to Congress a report every 2 years that shall contain a detailed statement regarding grants and awards, activities of grant recipients, and an evaluation of programs established under this section.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4123, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title IV, § 401, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1752.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 7133, Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4123, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3687, related to hate crime prevention, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


