§ 2343. Improvement plans(a) State program improvement(1) PlanIf a State fails to meet at least 90 percent of an agreed upon State adjusted level of performance for any of the core indicators of performance described in section 2323(b)(3) of this title, the eligible agency shall develop and implement a program improvement plan (with special consideration to performance gaps identified under section 2323(c)(2) of this title) in consultation with the appropriate agencies, individuals, and organizations during the first program year succeeding the program year for which the eligible agency failed to so meet the State adjusted level of performance for any of the core indicators of performance.


(2) Technical assistanceIf the Secretary determines that an eligible agency is not properly implementing the eligible agency’s responsibilities under section 2342 of this title, or is not making substantial progress in meeting the purposes of this chapter, based on the State’s adjusted levels of performance, the Secretary shall work with the eligible agency to implement the improvement activities consistent with the requirements of this chapter.


(3) Subsequent action(A) In generalThe Secretary may, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, withhold from an eligible agency all, or a portion, of the eligible agency’s allotment under paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 2322(a) of this title if the eligible agency—(i) fails to implement an improvement plan as described in paragraph (1);

(ii) fails to make any improvement in meeting any of the State adjusted levels of performance for the core indicators of performance identified under paragraph (1) within the first program year of implementation of its improvement plan described in paragraph (1); or

(iii) fails to meet at least 90 percent of an agreed upon State adjusted level of performance for the same core indicator of performance for 3 consecutive years.


(B) Waiver for exceptional circumstancesThe Secretary may waive the sanction in subparagraph (A) due to exceptional or uncontrollable circumstances, such as a natural disaster or a precipitous and unforeseen decline in the financial resources of the State.



(4) Funds resulting from reduced allotmentsThe Secretary shall use funds withheld under paragraph (3) for a State served by an eligible agency to provide technical assistance, to assist in the development of an improved State improvement plan, or for other improvement activities consistent with the requirements of this chapter for such State.



(b) Local program improvement(1) Local evaluationEach eligible agency shall evaluate annually, using the local adjusted levels of performance described in section 2323(b)(4) of this title, the career and technical education activities of each eligible recipient receiving funds under this subchapter.


(2) PlanIf, after reviewing the evaluation in paragraph (1), the eligible agency determines that an eligible recipient failed to meet at least 90 percent of an agreed upon local adjusted level of performance for any of the core indicators of performance described in section 2323(b)(4) of this title, the eligible recipient shall develop and implement a program improvement plan (with special consideration to performance gaps identified under section 2323(b)(4)(C)(ii)(II) of this title) in consultation with the eligible agency, appropriate agencies, individuals, and organizations during the first program year succeeding the program year for which the eligible recipient failed to so meet any of the local adjusted levels of performance for any of the core indicators of performance.


(3) Technical assistanceIf the eligible agency determines that an eligible recipient is not properly implementing the eligible recipient’s responsibilities under section 2354 of this title, or is not making substantial progress in meeting the purposes of this chapter, based on the local adjusted levels of performance, the eligible agency shall work with the eligible recipient to implement improvement activities consistent with the requirements of this chapter.


(4) Subsequent action(A) In generalThe eligible agency may, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, withhold from the eligible recipient all, or a portion, of the eligible recipient’s allotment under this subchapter if the eligible recipient—(i) fails to implement an improvement plan as described in paragraph (2);

(ii) fails to make any improvement in meeting any of the local adjusted levels of performance for the core indicators of performance identified under paragraph (2) within the first program year of implementation of its improvement plan described in paragraph (2); or

(iii) fails to meet at least 90 percent of an agreed upon local adjusted level of performance for the same core indicator of performance for 3 consecutive years.


(B) Waiver for exceptional circumstancesIn determining whether to impose sanctions under subparagraph (A), the eligible agency may waive imposing sanctions—(i) due to exceptional or uncontrollable circumstances, such as a natural disaster or a precipitous and unforeseen decline in the financial resources of the eligible recipient; or

(ii) based on the impact on the eligible recipient’s reported performance of the small size of the career and technical education program operated by the eligible recipient.



(5) Funds resulting from reduced allotmentsThe eligible agency shall use funds withheld under paragraph (4) from an eligible recipient to provide (through alternative arrangements) services and activities to students within the area served by such recipient to meet the purposes of this chapter.



(Pub. L. 88–210, title I, § 123, as added Pub. L. 109–270, § 1(b), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 721.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 2343, Pub. L. 88–210, title I, § 123, as added Pub. L. 105–332, § 1(b), Oct. 31, 1998, 112 Stat. 3106, related to improvement plans, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by Pub. L. 109–270.
Another prior section 2343, Pub. L. 88–210, title II, § 240, as added Pub. L. 101–392, title II, § 201, Sept. 25, 1990, 104 Stat. 784, related to local applications, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by Pub. L. 105–332.


