§ 6613. State use of funds(a) In generalA State that receives a grant under section 6611 of this title shall—(1) reserve 95 percent of the funds made available through the grant to make subgrants to local educational agencies as described in subpart 2 of this part;

(2) reserve 2.5 percent (or, for a fiscal year described in subsection (b) of this section, the percentage determined under subsection (b) of this section) of the funds to make subgrants to local partnerships as described in subpart 3 of this part; and

(3) use the remainder of the funds for State activities described in subsection (c) of this section.


(b) Special ruleFor any fiscal year for which the total amount that would be reserved by all States under subsection (a)(2) of this section, if the States applied a 2.5 percentage rate, exceeds $125,000,000, the Secretary shall determine an alternative percentage that the States shall apply for that fiscal year under subsection (a)(2) of this section so that the total amount reserved by all States under subsection (a)(2) of this section equals $125,000,000.


(c) State activitiesThe State educational agency for a State that receives a grant under section 6611 of this title shall use the funds described in subsection (a)(3) of this section to carry out one or more of the following activities, which may be carried out through a grant or contract with a for-profit or nonprofit entity:(1) Reforming teacher and principal certification (including recertification) or licensing requirements to ensure that—(A)(i) teachers have the necessary subject matter knowledge and teaching skills in the academic subjects that the teachers teach; and

(ii) principals have the instructional leadership skills to help teachers teach and students learn;


(B) teacher certification (including recertification) or licensing requirements are aligned with challenging State academic content standards; and

(C) teachers have the subject matter knowledge and teaching skills, including technology literacy, and principals have the instructional leadership skills, necessary to help students meet challenging State student academic achievement standards.


(2) Carrying out programs that provide support to teachers or principals, including support for teachers and principals new to their profession, such as programs that—(A) provide teacher mentoring, team teaching, reduced class schedules, and intensive professional development; and

(B) use standards or assessments for guiding beginning teachers that are consistent with challenging State student academic achievement standards and with the requirements for professional development activities described in section 7801 of this title.


(3) Carrying out programs that establish, expand, or improve alternative routes for State certification of teachers and principals, especially in the areas of mathematics and science, for highly qualified individuals with a baccalaureate or master’s degree, including mid-career professionals from other occupations, paraprofessionals, former military personnel, and recent college or university graduates with records of academic distinction who demonstrate the potential to become highly effective teachers or principals.

(4) Developing and implementing mechanisms to assist local educational agencies and schools in effectively recruiting and retaining highly qualified teachers, including specialists in core academic subjects, principals, and pupil services personnel, except that funds made available under this paragraph may be used for pupil services personnel only—(A) if the State educational agency is making progress toward meeting the annual measurable objectives described in section 6319(a)(2) of this title; and

(B) in a manner consistent with mechanisms to assist local educational agencies and schools in effectively recruiting and retaining highly qualified teachers and principals.


(5) Reforming tenure systems, implementing teacher testing for subject matter knowledge, and implementing teacher testing for State certification or licensing, consistent with title II of the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 1021 et seq.].

(6) Providing professional development for teachers and principals and, in cases in which a State educational agency determines support to be appropriate, supporting the participation of pupil services personnel in the same type of professional development activities as are made available to teachers and principals.

(7) Developing systems to measure the effectiveness of specific professional development programs and strategies to document gains in student academic achievement or increases in teacher mastery of the academic subjects the teachers teach.

(8) Fulfilling the State educational agency’s responsibilities concerning proper and efficient administration of the programs carried out under this part, including provision of technical assistance to local educational agencies.

(9) Funding projects to promote reciprocity of teacher and principal certification or licensing between or among States, except that no reciprocity agreement developed under this paragraph or developed using funds provided under this part may lead to the weakening of any State teaching certification or licensing requirement.

(10) Developing or assisting local educational agencies in the development and use of proven, innovative strategies to deliver intensive professional development programs that are both cost-effective and easily accessible, such as strategies that involve delivery through the use of technology, peer networks, and distance learning.

(11) Encouraging and supporting the training of teachers and administrators to effectively integrate technology into curricula and instruction, including training to improve the ability to collect, manage, and analyze data to improve teaching, decisionmaking, school improvement efforts, and accountability.

(12) Developing, or assisting local educational agencies in developing, merit-based performance systems, and strategies that provide differential and bonus pay for teachers in high-need academic subjects such as reading, mathematics, and science and teachers in high-poverty schools and districts.

(13) Providing assistance to local educational agencies for the development and implementation of professional development programs for principals that enable the principals to be effective school leaders and prepare all students to meet challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards, and the development and support of school leadership academies to help exceptionally talented aspiring or current principals and superintendents become outstanding managers and educational leaders.

(14) Developing, or assisting local educational agencies in developing, teacher advancement initiatives that promote professional growth and emphasize multiple career paths (such as paths to becoming a career teacher, mentor teacher, or exemplary teacher) and pay differentiation.

(15) Providing assistance to teachers to enable them to meet certification, licensing, or other requirements needed to become highly qualified by the end of the fourth year for which the State receives funds under this part (as amended by the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001).

(16) Supporting activities that ensure that teachers are able to use challenging State academic content standards and student academic achievement standards, and State assessments, to improve instructional practices and improve student academic achievement.

(17) Funding projects and carrying out programs to encourage men to become elementary school teachers.

(18) Establishing and operating a center that—(A) serves as a statewide clearinghouse for the recruitment and placement of kindergarten, elementary school, and secondary school teachers; and

(B) establishes and carries out programs to improve teacher recruitment and retention within the State.



(d) Administrative costsA State educational agency or State agency for higher education receiving a grant under this part may use not more than 1 percent of the grant funds for planning and administration related to carrying out activities under subsection (c) of this section and subpart 3 of this part.


(e) CoordinationA State that receives a grant to carry out this subpart and a grant under section 202 11 See References in Text note below. of the Higher Education Act of 1965 shall coordinate the activities carried out under this subpart and the activities carried out under that section.


(f) Supplement, not supplantFunds received under this subpart shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, non-Federal funds that would otherwise be used for activities authorized under this subpart.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2113, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title II, § 201, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1625.)


References in TextThe Higher Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (c)(5), is Pub. L. 89–329, Nov. 8, 1965, 79 Stat. 1219, as amended. Title II of the Act is classified generally to subchapter II (§ 1021 et seq.) of chapter 28 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1001 of this title and Tables.
The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, referred to in subsec. (c)(15), is Pub. L. 107–110, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1425. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2002 Amendment note set out under section 6301 of this title and Tables.
Section 202 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (e), which was classified to section 1022 of this title, was repealed by Pub. L. 110–315, title II, § 201(2), Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3133. Pub. L. 110–315 enacted a new section 202 of the Act, relating to partnership grants, which is classified to section 1022a of this title.


