§ 7139. Grants to reduce alcohol abuse(a) In generalThe Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, may award grants from funds made available to carry out this subpart under section 7103(2) of this title, on a competitive basis, to local educational agencies to enable such agencies to develop and implement innovative and effective programs to reduce alcohol abuse in secondary schools.


(b) EligibilityTo be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a) of this section, a local educational agency shall prepare and submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including—(1) a description of the activities to be carried out under the grant;

(2) an assurance that such activities will include one or more of the proven strategies for reducing underage alcohol abuse as determined by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration;

(3) an explanation of how activities to be carried out under the grant that are not described in paragraph (2) will be effective in reducing underage alcohol abuse, including references to the past effectiveness of such activities;

(4) an assurance that the applicant will submit to the Secretary an annual report concerning the effectiveness of the programs and activities funded under the grant; and

(5) such other information as the Secretary determines appropriate.


(c) Streamlining of process for low-income and rural LEAsThe Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, shall develop procedures to make the application process for grants under this section more user-friendly, particularly for low-income and rural local educational agencies.


(d) Reservations(1) SAMHSAThe Secretary may reserve 20 percent of any amount used to carry out this section to enable the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to provide alcohol abuse resources and start-up assistance to local educational agencies receiving grants under this section.


(2) Low-income and rural areasThe Secretary may reserve 25 percent of any amount used to carry out this section to award grants to low-income and rural local educational agencies.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4129, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title IV, § 401, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1757.)
