§ 1616a–1. Scholarship and Loan Repayment Recovery Fund(a) EstablishmentThere is established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the Indian Health Scholarship and Loan Repayment Recovery Fund (hereafter in this section referred to as the “Fund”). The Fund shall consist of such amounts as may be appropriated to the Fund under subsection (b) of this section. Amounts appropriated for the Fund shall remain available until expended.


(b) Authorization of appropriationsFor each fiscal year, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Fund an amount equal to the sum of—(1) the amount collected during the preceding fiscal year by the Federal Government pursuant to—(A) the liability of individuals under subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 1613a(b)(5) of this title for the breach of contracts entered into under section 1613a of this title; and

(B) the liability of individuals under section 1616a(l) of this title for the breach of contracts entered into under section 1616a of this title; and


(2) the aggregate amount of interest accruing during the preceding fiscal year on obligations held in the Fund pursuant to subsection (d) of this section and the amount of proceeds from the sale or redemption of such obligations during such fiscal year.


(c) Use of funds(1) Amounts in the Fund and available pursuant to appropriation Acts may be expended by the Secretary, acting through the Service, to make payments to an Indian tribe or tribal organization administering a health care program pursuant to a contract entered into under the Indian Self-Determination Act [25 U.S.C. 450f et seq.]—(A) to which a scholarship recipient under section 1613a of this title or a loan repayment program participant under section 1616a of this title has been assigned to meet the obligated service requirements pursuant to 11 So in original. Probably should be “to such”. sections; and

(B) that has a need for a health professional to provide health care services as a result of such recipient or participant having breached the contract entered into under section 1613a of this title or section 1616a of this title.


(2) An Indian tribe or tribal organization receiving payments pursuant to paragraph (1) may expend the payments to recruit and employ, directly or by contract, health professionals to provide health care services.


(d) Investment of excess funds(1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest such amounts of the Fund as such Secretary determines are not required to meet current withdrawals from the Fund. Such investments may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the United States. For such purpose, such obligations may be acquired on original issue at the issue price, or by purchase of outstanding obligations at the market price.

(2) Any obligation acquired by the Fund may be sold by the Secretary of the Treasury at the market price.


(Pub. L. 94–437, title I, § 108A, as added Pub. L. 102–573, title I, § 110, Oct. 29, 1992, 106 Stat. 4538.)


References in TextThe Indian Self-Determination Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is title I of Pub. L. 93–638, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2206, as amended, which is classified principally to part A (§ 450f et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 14 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 450 of this title and Tables.


