§ 733. Provision of pre-employment transition services(a) In generalFrom the funds reserved under section 730(d) of this title, and any funds made available from State, local, or private funding sources, each State shall ensure that the designated State unit, in collaboration with the local educational agencies involved, shall provide, or arrange for the provision of, pre-employment transition services for all students with disabilities in need of such services who are eligible or potentially eligible for services under this subchapter.


(b) Required activitiesFunds available under subsection (a) shall be used to make available to students with disabilities described in subsection (a)—(1) job exploration counseling;

(2) work-based learning experiences, which may include in-school or after school opportunities, or experience outside the traditional school setting (including internships), that is provided in an integrated environment to the maximum extent possible;

(3) counseling on opportunities for enrollment in comprehensive transition or postsecondary educational programs at institutions of higher education;

(4) workplace readiness training to develop social skills and independent living; and

(5) instruction in self-advocacy, which may include peer mentoring.


(c) Authorized activitiesFunds available under subsection (a) and remaining after the provision of the required activities described in subsection (b) may be used to improve the transition of students with disabilities described in subsection (a) from school to postsecondary education or an employment outcome by—(1) implementing effective strategies to increase the likelihood of independent living and inclusion in communities and competitive integrated workplaces;

(2) developing and improving strategies for individuals with intellectual disabilities and individuals with significant disabilities to live independently, participate in postsecondary education experiences, and obtain and retain competitive integrated employment;

(3) providing instruction to vocational rehabilitation counselors, school transition personnel, and other persons supporting students with disabilities;

(4) disseminating information about innovative, effective, and efficient approaches to achieve the goals of this section;

(5) coordinating activities with transition services provided by local educational agencies under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.);

(6) applying evidence-based findings to improve policy, procedure, practice, and the preparation of personnel, in order to better achieve the goals of this section;

(7) developing model transition demonstration projects;

(8) establishing or supporting multistate or regional partnerships involving States, local educational agencies, designated State units, developmental disability agencies, private businesses, or other participants to achieve the goals of this section; and

(9) disseminating information and strategies to improve the transition to postsecondary activities of individuals who are members of traditionally unserved populations.


(d) Pre-employment transition coordinationEach local office of a designated State unit shall carry out responsibilities consisting of—(1) attending individualized education program meetings for students with disabilities, when invited;

(2) working with the local workforce development boards, one-stop centers, and employers to develop work opportunities for students with disabilities, including internships, summer employment and other employment opportunities available throughout the school year, and apprenticeships;

(3) work with schools, including those carrying out activities under section 614(d)(1)(A)(i)(VIII) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1414(d)(1)(A)(i)(VIII)), to coordinate and ensure the provision of pre-employment transition services under this section; and

(4) when invited, attend person-centered planning meetings for individuals receiving services under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.).


(e) National pre-employment transition coordinationThe Secretary shall support designated State agencies providing services under this section, highlight best State practices, and consult with other Federal agencies to advance the goals of this section.


(f) SupportIn carrying out this section, States shall address the transition needs of all students with disabilities, including such students with physical, sensory, intellectual, and mental health disabilities.


(Pub. L. 93–112, title I, § 113, as added Pub. L. 113–128, title IV, § 422, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1657.)


References in TextThe Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(5), is title VI of Pub. L. 91–230, Apr. 13, 1970, 84 Stat. 175, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1400 et seq.) of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1400 of Title 20 and Tables.
The Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (d)(4), is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620. Title XIX of the Act is classified generally to subchapter XIX (§ 1396 et seq.) of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1305 of Title 42 and Tables.


Definitions of Terms in Pub. L. 113–128
Except as otherwise provided, terms defined in section 3 of Pub. L. 113–128, which is classified to section 3102 of this title, apply to this section.


