§ 5702. Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation(a) Establishment and purposesThere is established, as an independent establishment of the executive branch, the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation (hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the “Foundation”).


(b) MembershipThe Foundation shall be subject to the supervision and direction of the Board of Trustees. The Board shall be composed of 13 members as follows:(1) 2 members appointed by the President in consultation with the President pro tempore of the Senate.

(2) 2 members appointed by the President in consultation with the Minority Leader of the Senate.

(3) 2 members appointed by the President in consultation with the Speaker of the House of Representatives.

(4) 2 members appointed by the President in consultation with the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.

(5) 5 members appointed by the President.


(c) Chairman and Vice Chairman of FoundationThe President shall designate a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from among the members appointed by the President.


(d) Terms of office; vacanciesEach member of the Board of Trustees appointed under subsection (b) of this section shall serve for a term of 6 years from the expiration of the term of such member’s predecessor, except that—(1) any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term for which such member’s predecessor was appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of such term; and

(2) of the members first appointed—(A) 4 shall be appointed for a term of 2 years;

(B) 5 shall be appointed for a term of 4 years; and

(C) 4 shall be appointed for a term of 6 years,


as designated by the President.


(e) Expenses; no additional compensationMembers of the Board shall serve without pay, but shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as members of the Board.


(Pub. L. 102–281, title IV, § 423, May 13, 1992, 106 Stat. 142.)
