§ 80r–3. Council(a) EstablishmentThere is established within the Smithsonian Institution a council to be known as the “National Museum of African American History and Culture Council”.


(b) Duties(1) In generalThe Council shall—(A) make recommendations to the Board of Regents concerning the planning, design, and construction of the Museum;

(B) advise and assist the Board of Regents on all matters relating to the administration, operation, maintenance, and preservation of the Museum;

(C) recommend annual operating budgets for the Museum to the Board of Regents;

(D) report annually to the Board of Regents on the acquisition, disposition, and display of objects relating to African American life, art, history, and culture; and

(E) adopt bylaws for the operation of the Council.


(2) Principal responsibilitiesThe Council, subject to the general policies of the Board of Regents, shall have sole authority to—(A) purchase, accept, borrow, and otherwise acquire artifacts for addition to the collections of the Museum;

(B) loan, exchange, sell, and otherwise dispose of any part of the collections of the Museum, but only if the funds generated by that disposition are used for additions to the collections of the Museum; or

(C) specify criteria with respect to the use of the collections and resources of the Museum, including policies on programming, education, exhibitions, and research with respect to—(i) the life, art, history, and culture of African Americans;

(ii) the role of African Americans in the history of the United States from the period of slavery to the present; and

(iii) the contributions of African Americans to society.



(3) Other responsibilitiesThe Council, subject to the general policies of the Board of Regents, shall have authority—(A) to provide for preservation, restoration, and maintenance of the collections of the Museum; and

(B) to solicit, accept, use, and dispose of gifts, bequests, and devises of personal property for the purpose of aiding and facilitating the work of the Museum.



(c) Composition and appointment(1) In generalThe Council shall be composed of 19 voting members as provided under paragraph (2).


(2) Voting membersThe Council shall include the following voting members:(A) The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.

(B) One member of the Board of Regents, appointed by the Board of Regents.

(C) Seventeen individuals appointed by the Board of Regents—(i) taking into consideration individuals recommended by organizations and entities that are committed to the advancement of knowledge of African American life, art, history, and culture; and

(ii) taking into consideration individuals recommended by the members of the Council.



(3) Initial appointmentsThe Board of Regents shall make initial appointments to the Council under paragraph (2) not later than 180 days after December 16, 2003.



(d) Terms(1) In generalExcept as provided in this subsection, each appointed member of the Council shall be appointed for a term of 3 years.


(2) Initial appointeesAs designated by the Board of Regents at the time of appointment, of the voting members first appointed under subparagraph (C) of subsection (c)(2) of this section—(A) six members shall be appointed for a term of 1 year;

(B) six members shall be appointed for a term of 2 years; and

(C) five members shall be appointed for a term of 3 years.


(3) ReappointmentA member of the Council may be reappointed, except that no individual may serve on the Council for a total of more than 2 terms. For purposes of this paragraph, the number of terms an individual serves on the Council shall not include any portion of a term for which an individual is appointed to fill a vacancy under paragraph (4)(B).


(4) Vacancies(A) In generalA vacancy on the Council—(i) shall not affect the powers of the Council; and

(ii) shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.


(B) TermAny member of the Council appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall be appointed for the remainder of that term.




(e) Compensation(1) In generalExcept as provided in paragraph (2), a member of the Council shall serve without pay.


(2) Travel expensesA member of the Council shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for an employee of an agency under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, while away from the home or regular place of business of the member in the performance of the duties of the Council.



(f) ChairpersonBy a majority vote of its voting members, the Council shall elect a chairperson from its members.


(g) Meetings(1) In generalThe Council shall meet at the call of the chairperson or on the written request of a majority of the voting members of the Council, but not fewer than twice each year.


(2) Initial meetingsDuring the 1-year period beginning on the date of the first meeting of the Council, the Council shall meet not fewer than 4 times for the purpose of carrying out the duties of the Council under this subchapter.



(h) QuorumA majority of the voting members of the Council holding office shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting business, but a lesser number may receive information on behalf of the Council.


(Pub. L. 108–184, § 5, Dec. 16, 2003, 117 Stat. 2677.)
