§ 803. Matching grants to States(a) PurposesSubject to the provisions of this chapter and in accordance with regulations prescribed by him, the Secretary may make matching grants to States to assist in—(1) organizing, initiating, developing, or expanding programs to provide special training in skills needed for economic and efficient community development to those technical, professional, and other persons with the capacity to master and employ such skills who are, or are training to be, employed by a governmental or public body which has responsibilities for community development, or by a private nonprofit organization which is conducting or has responsibility for housing and community development programs; and

(2) supporting State and local research that is needed in connection with housing programs and needs, public improvement programing, code problems, efficient land use, urban transportation, and similar community development problems, and collecting, collating, and publishing statistics and information relating to such research.


(b) Training in housing managementGrants may be made under subsection (a) of this section to support (1) the training of persons, especially persons of low income, in acquiring the skills needed in the management of housing for low- and moderate-income persons, and (2) research and the dissemination of information with respect to the problems involved in the management of housing for low- and moderate-income persons.


(c) State plan; required provisionsNo grants may be made to a State under this section unless the Secretary has approved a plan for the State which—(1) sets forth the proposed use of the funds and the objectives to be accomplished;

(2) explains the method by which the required amounts from non-Federal sources will be obtained;

(3) provides such fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be reasonably necessary to assure proper disbursement of, and accounting for, Federal funds paid to the State under this section;

(4) designates an officer or agency of the State government who has responsibility and authority for the administration of a statewide research and training program as the officer or agency with responsibility and authority for the execution of the State’s program under this section; and

(5) provides that such officer or agency will make such reports to the Secretary, in such form, and containing such information, as may be reasonably necessary to enable the Secretary to perform his duties under this section.


(d) Matching funds from non-Federal sourcesNo grant may be made under this section for any use unless an amount at least equal to such grant is made available from non-Federal sources for the same purpose and for concurrent use.


(Pub. L. 88–560, title VIII, § 803, Sept. 2, 1964, 78 Stat. 803; Pub. L. 89–117, title XI, § 1103(b), Aug. 10, 1965, 79 Stat. 503; Pub. L. 91–152, title III, § 307, Dec. 24, 1969, 83 Stat. 393; Pub. L. 91–609, title IX, § 904, Dec. 31, 1970, 84 Stat. 1809.)

Amendments1970—Subsecs. (b) to (d). Pub. L. 91–609 added subsec. (b) and redesignated former subsecs. (b) and (c) as (c) and (d), respectively.
1969—Pub. L. 91–152 substituted provisions authorizing the Secretary to make matching grants to States to assist in programs providing special training in community development and to support State and local research, provisions setting forth the required contents of any plan submitted to the Secretary in order to obtain grants, and provisions requiring the matching from non-Federal sources of any grant made pursuant to this section, for provisions requiring not more than 10 per centum of the total amount appropriated be used for making grants to any one State. The former provisions of this section are now set forth in section 804 of this title with minor amendments.
1965—Pub. L. 89–117 substituted “appropriated for the purposes of this subchapter” for “authorized to be appropriated by section 802(d) of this title”.


