§ 763. Interagency Committee(a) Establishment; membership; meetings(1) In order to promote coordination and cooperation among Federal departments and agencies conducting disability, independent living, and rehabilitation research programs, including programs relating to assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design, there is established within the Federal Government an Interagency Committee on Disability Research (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Committee”), chaired by the Secretary, or the Secretary’s designee, and comprised of such members as the President may designate, including the following (or their designees): the Director, the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration, the Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Disability Employment Policy, the Secretary of Defense, the Administrator of the Administration for Community Living, the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Director of the National Institutes of Health, the Director of the National Institute of Mental Health, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Secretary of Transportation, the Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs, the Director of the Indian Health Service, the Director of the National Science Foundation and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.

(2) The Committee shall meet not less than four times each year, and for not less than 1 of such meetings at least every 2 years, the Committee shall invite policymakers, representatives from other Federal agencies conducting relevant research, individuals with disabilities, organizations representing individuals with disabilities, researchers, and providers, to offer input on the Committee’s work, including the development and implementation of the strategic plan required under subsection (c).


(b) Duties(1) After receiving input individuals 11 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “from”. with disabilities, the Committee shall identify, assess, and seek to coordinate all Federal programs, activities, and projects, and plans for such programs, activities, and projects with respect to the conduct of research (including assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design) related to independent living and rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities.

(2) In carrying out its duties with respect to the conduct of Federal research (including assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design) related to rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities, the Committee shall—(A) share information regarding the range of assistive technology research, independent living research, and research that incorporates the principles of universal design, that is being carried out by members of the Committee and other Federal departments and organizations;

(B) identify, and make efforts to address, gaps in assistive technology research, independent living research, and research that incorporates the principles of universal design that are not being adequately addressed;

(C) identify, and establish, clear research priorities related to assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design for the Federal Government;

(D) promote interagency collaboration and joint research activities relating to assistive technology research, independent living research, and research that incorporates the principles of universal design at the Federal level, and reduce unnecessary duplication of effort regarding these types of research within the Federal Government; and

(E) optimize the productivity of Committee members through resource sharing and other cost-saving activities, related to assistive technology research, independent living research, and research that incorporates the principles of universal design.



(c) Strategic plan(1) The Committee shall develop a comprehensive government wide strategic plan for disability, independent living, and rehabilitation research.

(2) The strategic plan shall include, at a minimum—(A) a description of the—(i) measurable goals and objectives;

(ii) existing resources each agency will devote to carrying out the plan;

(iii) timetables for completing the projects outlined in the plan; and

(iv) assignment of responsible individuals and agencies for carrying out the research activities;


(B) research priorities and recommendations;

(C) a description of how funds from each agency will be combined, as appropriate, for projects administered among Federal agencies, and how such funds will be administered;

(D) the development and ongoing maintenance of a searchable government wide inventory of disability, independent living, and rehabilitation research for trend and data analysis across Federal agencies;

(E) guiding principles, policies, and procedures, consistent with the best research practices available, for conducting and administering disability, independent living, and rehabilitation research across Federal agencies; and

(F) a summary of underemphasized and duplicative areas of research.


(3) The strategic plan described in this subsection shall be submitted to the President and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives.


(d) Annual reportNot later than December 31 of each year, the Committee shall prepare and submit, to the President and to the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, a report that—(1) describes the progress of the Committee in fulfilling the duties described in subsections (b) and (c), and including specifically for subsection (c)—(A) a report of the progress made in implementing the strategic plan, including progress toward implementing the elements described in subsection (c)(2)(A); and

(B) detailed budget information.22 So in original. The period probably should be a semicolon.


(2) makes such recommendations as the Committee determines to be appropriate with respect to coordination of policy and development of objectives and priorities for all Federal programs relating to the conduct of research (including assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design) related to rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities; and

(3) describes the activities that the Committee recommended to be funded through grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other mechanisms, for assistive technology research and development and research and development that incorporates the principles of universal design.


(e) DefinitionsIn this section—(1) the terms “assistive technology” and “universal design” have the meanings given the terms in section 3002 of this title; and

(2) the term “independent living”, used in connection with research, means research on issues and topics related to attaining maximum self-sufficiency and function by individuals with disabilities, including research on assistive technology and universal design, employment, education, health and wellness, and community integration and participation.


(Pub. L. 93–112, title II, § 203, as added Pub. L. 105–220, title IV, § 405, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1173; amended Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(f) [title VIII, § 401(16)], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–337, 2681–412; Pub. L. 105–394, title II, § 201, Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3651; Pub. L. 108–364, § 3(b)(1), Oct. 25, 2004, 118 Stat. 1737; Pub. L. 113–128, title IV, § 434, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1664.)

Prior ProvisionsProvisions similar to this section were contained in section 761b of this title prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 105–220.
A prior section 763, Pub. L. 93–112, title II, § 203, Sept. 26, 1973, 87 Stat. 376, relating to making of grants and contracts for training of personnel involved in vocational services to handicapped individuals, was renumbered section 304 of Pub. L. 93–112 and transferred to section 774 of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 113–128.

Amendments2014—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 113–128, § 434(1)(A), substituted “conducting disability, independent living, and rehabilitation research” for “conducting rehabilitation research”, “chaired by the Secretary, or the Secretary’s designee,” for “chaired by the Director”, and “the Director of the National Science Foundation and the Administrator of the Small Business Administration.” for “and the Director of the National Science Foundation.” and inserted “the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Disability Employment Policy, the Secretary of Defense, the Administrator of the Administration for Community Living,” after “Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services,”.
Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 113–128, § 434(1)(B), inserted “, and for not less than 1 of such meetings at least every 2 years, the Committee shall invite policymakers, representatives from other Federal agencies conducting relevant research, individuals with disabilities, organizations representing individuals with disabilities, researchers, and providers, to offer input on the Committee’s work, including the development and implementation of the strategic plan required under subsection (c)” after “each year”.
Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 113–128, § 434(2)(A), substituted “individuals with disabilities” for “from targeted individuals” and inserted “independent living and” before “rehabilitation”.
Subsec. (b)(2)(A). Pub. L. 113–128, § 434(2)(B)(i), inserted “independent living research,” after “assistive technology research,”.
Subsec. (b)(2)(B), (D), (E). Pub. L. 113–128, § 434(2)(B)(ii)–(iv), inserted “, independent living research,” after “assistive technology research”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 113–128, § 434(5), added subsec. (c). Former subsec. (c) redesignated (d).
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 113–128, § 434(6)(A), substituted “Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate” for “Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate” in introductory provisions.
Pub. L. 113–128, § 434(3), (4), redesignated subsec. (c) as (d) and struck out former subsec. (d) which related to recommendations for coordinating research among Federal departments.
Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 113–128, § 434(6)(B), added par. (1) and struck out former par. (1) which read as follows: “describes the progress of the Committee in fulfilling the duties described in subsection (b) of this section;”.
Subsec. (e)(2). Pub. L. 113–128, § 434(7), added par. (2) and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: “the term ‘targeted individuals’ has the meaning given the term ‘targeted individuals and entities’ in section 3002 of this title.”
2004—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 108–364 added subsec. (e) and struck out former subsec. (e) which read as follows: “In this section, the terms ‘assistive technology’, ‘targeted individuals’, and ‘universal design’ have the meanings given the terms in section 3002 of this title.”
1998—Pub. L. 105–277 made technical amendment to directory language of Pub. L. 105–220, § 405, which enacted this section.
Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 105–394, § 201(1), inserted “including programs relating to assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design,” after “programs,”.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 105–394, § 201(2), designated existing provisions as par. (1), substituted “targeted individuals” for “individuals with disabilities and the individuals’ representatives”, inserted “(including assistive technology research and research that incorporates the principles of universal design)” after “research”, and added par. (2).
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 105–394, § 201(3), added subsec. (c) and struck out former subsec. (c) which read as follows: “The Committee shall annually submit to the President and to the appropriate committees of the Congress a report making such recommendations as the Committee deems appropriate with respect to coordination of policy and development of objectives and priorities for all Federal programs relating to the conduct of research related to rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities.”
Subsecs. (d), (e). Pub. L. 105–394, § 201(4), added subsecs. (d) and (e).


Change of Name
Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.


