“SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY.“(a) Findings and Policy.—Congress hereby finds and declares that:“(1) The Aroostook Band of Micmacs, as represented as of the time of passage of this Act by the Aroostook Micmac Council, is the sole successor in interest, as to lands within the United States, to the aboriginal entity generally known as the Micmac Nation which years ago claimed aboriginal title to certain lands in the State of Maine.

“(2) The Band was not referred to in the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980 [25 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.] because historical documentation of the Micmac presence in Maine was not available at that time.

“(3) This documentation does establish the historical presence of Micmacs in Maine and the existence of aboriginal lands in Maine jointly used by the Micmacs and other tribes to which the Micmacs could have asserted aboriginal title but for the extinguishment of all such claims by the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980.

“(4) The Aroostook Band of Micmacs, in both its history and its presence in Maine, is similar to the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians and would have received similar treatment under the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980 if the information available today had been available to Congress and the parties at that time.

“(5) It is now fair and just to afford the Aroostook Band of Micmacs the same settlement provided to the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians for the settlement of that Band’s claims, to the extent they would have benefited from inclusion in the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980.

“(6) Since 1820, the State of Maine has provided special services to the Indians residing within its borders, including the members of the Aroostook Band of Micmacs. During this same period, the United States provided few special services to the Band and repeatedly denied that it had jurisdiction over or responsibility for the Indian groups in Maine. In view of this provision of special services by the State of Maine, requiring substantial expenditures by the State of Maine and made by the State of Maine without being required to do so by Federal law, it is the intent of Congress that the State of Maine not be required further to contribute directly to this settlement.


“(b) Purpose.—It is the purpose of this Act to—“(1) provide Federal recognition of the Band;

“(2) provide to the members of the Band the services which the United States provides to Indians because of their status as Indians; and

“(3) place $900,000 in a land acquisition fund and property tax fund for the future use of the Aroostook Band of Micmacs; and

“(4) ratify the Micmac Settlement Act, which defines the relationship between the State of Maine and the Aroostook Band of Micmacs.


