§ 6764. Local applications(a) In generalTo be eligible to receive a subgrant from a State educational agency under this subpart, a local educational agency or eligible local entity shall submit to the State educational agency an application containing a new or updated local long-range strategic educational technology plan that is consistent with the objectives of the statewide educational technology plan described in section 6763(a) of this title, and such other information as the State educational agency may reasonably require, at such time and in such manner as the State educational agency may require.


(b) ContentsThe application shall include each of the following:(1) A description of how the applicant will use Federal funds under this subpart to improve the student academic achievement, including technology literacy, of all students attending schools served by the local educational agency and to improve the capacity of all teachers teaching in schools served by the local educational agency to integrate technology effectively into curricula and instruction.

(2) A description of the applicant’s specific goals for using advanced technology to improve student academic achievement, aligned with challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards.

(3) A description of the steps the applicant will take to ensure that all students and teachers in schools served by the local educational agency involved have increased access to educational technology, including how the agency would use funds under this subpart (such as combining the funds with funds from other sources), to help ensure that—(A) students in high-poverty and high-needs schools, or schools identified under section 6316 of this title, have access to technology; and

(B) teachers are prepared to integrate technology effectively into curricula and instruction.


(4) A description of how the applicant will—(A) identify and promote curricula and teaching strategies that integrate technology effectively into curricula and instruction, based on a review of relevant research, leading to improvements in student academic achievement, as measured by challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards; and

(B) provide ongoing, sustained professional development for teachers, principals, administrators, and school library media personnel serving the local educational agency, to further the effective use of technology in the classroom or library media center, including, if applicable, a list of the entities that will be partners with the local educational agency involved in providing the ongoing, sustained professional development.


(5) A description of the type and costs of technologies to be acquired under this subpart, including services, software, and digital curricula, and including specific provisions for interoperability among components of such technologies.

(6) A description of how the applicant will coordinate activities carried out with funds provided under this subpart with technology-related activities carried out with funds available from other Federal, State, and local sources.

(7) A description of how the applicant will integrate technology (including software and other electronically delivered learning materials) into curricula and instruction, and a timeline for such integration.

(8) A description of how the applicant will encourage the development and utilization of innovative strategies for the delivery of specialized or rigorous academic courses and curricula through the use of technology, including distance learning technologies, particularly for those areas that would not otherwise have access to such courses and curricula due to geographical isolation or insufficient resources.

(9) A description of how the applicant will ensure the effective use of technology to promote parental involvement and increase communication with parents, including a description of how parents will be informed of the technology being applied in their child’s education so that the parents are able to reinforce at home the instruction their child receives at school.

(10) A description of how programs will be developed, where applicable, in collaboration with adult literacy service providers, to maximize the use of technology.

(11) A description of the process and accountability measures that the applicant will use to evaluate the extent to which activities funded under this subpart are effective in integrating technology into curricula and instruction, increasing the ability of teachers to teach, and enabling students to meet challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards.

(12) A description of the supporting resources (such as services, software, other electronically delivered learning materials, and print resources) that will be acquired to ensure successful and effective uses of technology.


(c) Combined applicationsA local educational agency that is an eligible local entity and submits an application to the State educational agency under this section for funds awarded under section 6762(a)(2)(A) of this title may combine the agency’s application for funds awarded under that section with an application for funds awarded under section 6762(a)(2)(B) of this title.


(d) Special rule(1) Consortium applications(A) In generalFor any fiscal year, a local educational agency applying for financial assistance described in section 6762(a)(2)(A) of this title may apply as part of a consortium that includes other local educational agencies, institutions of higher education, educational service agencies, libraries, or other educational entities appropriate to provide local programs.


(B) Fiscal agentIf a local educational agency applies for and receives financial assistance described in section 6762(a)(2)(A) of this title as part of a consortium, the local educational agency shall serve as the fiscal agent for the consortium.



(2) State educational agency assistanceAt the request of a local educational agency, a State educational agency may assist the local educational agency in the formation of a consortium described in paragraph (1) to provide services for the teachers and students served by the local educational agency.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2414, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title II, § 201, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1677.)
