§ 941j. Establishment of Expanded Reservation(a) Existing ReservationThe Secretary is authorized to receive from the State, by such transfer document as the Secretary and the State shall approve, all rights, title, and interests of the State in and to the Existing Reservation to be held by the United States as trustee for the Tribe, and, effective on the date of such transfer, the obligation of the State as trustee for the Tribe with respect to such land shall cease.


(b) Expanded Reservation(1) The Existing Reservation shall be expanded in the manner prescribed by the Settlement Agreement.

(2) Within 180 days following October 27, 1993, the Secretary, after consulting with the Tribe, shall ascertain the boundaries and area of the existing reservation.11 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. In addition, the Secretary, after consulting with the Tribe, shall engage a professional land planning firm as provided in the Settlement Agreement. The Secretary shall bear the cost of all services rendered pursuant to this section.

(3) The Tribe may identify, purchase and request that the Secretary place into reservation status, tracts of lands in the manner prescribed by the Settlement Agreement. The Tribe may not request that any land be placed in reservation status, unless those lands were acquired by the Tribe and qualify for reservation status in full compliance with the Settlement Agreement, including section 14 thereof.

(4) The Secretary shall bear the cost of all title examinations, preliminary subsurface soil investigations, and level one environmental audits to be performed on each parcel contemplated for purchase by the Tribe or the Secretary for the Expanded Reservation, and shall report the results to the Tribe. The Secretary’s or the Tribe’s payment of any option fee and the purchase price may be drawn from the Catawba Land Acquisition Trust Fund.

(5) The total area of the Expanded Reservation shall be limited to 3,000 acres, including the Existing Reservation, but the Tribe may exclude from this limit up to 600 acres of additional land under the conditions set forth in the Settlement Agreement. The Tribe may seek to have the permissible area of the Expanded Reservation enlarged by an additional 600 acres as set forth in the Settlement Agreement.

(6) All lands acquired for the Expanded Reservation may be held in trust together with the Existing Reservation which the State is to convey to the United States.

(7) Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the Secretary from providing technical and financial assistance to the Tribe to fulfill the purposes of this section.


(c) Expansion zones(1) Subject to the conditions, criteria, and procedures set forth in the Settlement Agreement, the Tribe shall endeavor at the outset to acquire contiguous tracts for the Expanded Reservation in the “Catawba Reservation Primary Expansion Zone”, as defined in the Settlement Agreement.

(2) Subject to the conditions, criteria, and procedures set forth in the Settlement Agreement, the Tribe may elect to purchase contiguous tracts in an alternative area, the “Catawba Reservation Secondary Expansion Zone”, as defined in the Settlement Agreement.

(3) The Tribe may propose different or additional expansion zones subject to the authorizations required in the Settlement Agreement and the State Act.


(d) Non-contiguous tractsThe Tribe, in consultation with the Secretary, shall take such actions as are reasonable to expand the Existing Reservation by assembling a composite tract of contiguous parcels that border and surround the Existing Reservation. Before requesting that any non-contiguous tract be placed in Reservation status, the Tribe shall comply with section 14 of the Settlement Agreement. Upon the approval of the Tribe’s application under and in accordance with section 14 of the Settlement Agreement, the Secretary, in consultation with the Tribe, may proceed to place non-contiguous tracts in Reservation status. No purchases of non-contiguous tracts shall be made for the Reservation except as set forth in the Settlement Agreement and the State Act.


(e) Voluntary land purchases(1) The power of eminent domain shall not be used by the Secretary or any governmental authority in acquiring parcels of land for the benefit of the Tribe, whether or not the parcels are to be part of the Reservation. All such purchases shall be made only from willing sellers by voluntary conveyances subject to the terms of the Settlement Agreement.

(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section and the provisions of sections 3113 and 3114(a) to (d) of title 40, the Secretary or the Tribe may acquire a fractional interest in land otherwise qualifying under section 14 of the Settlement Agreement for treatment as Reservation land for the benefit of the Tribe from the ostensible owner of the land if the Secretary or the Tribe and the ostensible owner have agreed upon the identity of the land to be sold and upon the purchase price and other terms of sale. If the ostensible owner agrees to the sale, the Secretary may use condemnation proceedings to perfect or clear title and to acquire any interests of putative co-tenants whose address is unknown or the interests of unknown or unborn heirs or persons subject to mental disability.


(f) Terms and conditions of acquisitionAll properties acquired by the Tribe shall be acquired subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Settlement Agreement. The Tribe and the Secretary, acting on behalf of the Tribe and with its consent, are also authorized to acquire Reservation and non-Reservation lands using the methods of financing described in the Settlement Agreement.


(g) Authority to erect permanent improvements on Existing and Expanded Reservation land and non-Reservation land held in trustNotwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, the Attorney General of the United States shall approve any deed or other instrument which conveys to the United States lands purchased pursuant to the provisions of this section and the Settlement Agreement. The Secretary or the Tribe may erect permanent improvements of a substantial value, or any other improvements authorized by law on such land after such land is conveyed to the United States.


(h) Easements over Reservation(1) The acquisition of lands for the Expanded Reservation shall not extinguish any easements or rights-of-way then encumbering such lands unless the Secretary or the Tribe enters into a written agreement with the owners terminating such easements or rights-of-way.

(2)(A) The Tribe, with the approval of the Secretary, shall have the power to grant or convey easements and rights-of-way, in a manner consistent with the Settlement Agreement.

(B) Unless the Tribe and the State agree upon a valuation formula for pricing easements over the Reservation, the Secretary shall be subject to proceedings for condemnation and eminent domain to acquire easements and rights of way for public purposes through the Reservation under the laws of the State in circumstances where no other reasonable access is available.

(C) With the approval of the Tribe, the Secretary may grant easements or rights-of-way over the Reservation for private purposes, and implied easements of necessity shall apply to all lands acquired by the Tribe, unless expressly excluded by the parties.



(i) Jurisdictional statusOnly land made part of the Reservation shall be governed by the special jurisdictional provisions set forth in the Settlement Agreement and the State Act.


(j) Sale and transfer of Reservation landsWith the approval of the Secretary, the Tribe may sell, exchange, or lease lands within the Reservation, and sell timber or other natural resources on the Reservation under circumstances and in the manner prescribed by the Settlement Agreement and the State Act.


(k) Time limit on acquisitionsAll acquisitions of contiguous land to expand the Reservation or of non-contiguous lands to be placed in Reservation status shall be completed or under contract of purchase within 10 years from the date the last payment is made into the Land Acquisition Trust; except that for a period of 20 years after the date the last payment is made into the Catawba Land Acquisition Trust Fund, the Tribe may, subject to the limitation on the total size of the Reservation, continue to add parcels to up to two Reservation areas so long as the parcels acquired are contiguous to one of those two Reservation areas.


(l) Leases of Reservation landsThe provisions of section 415 of this title shall not apply to the Tribe and its Reservation. The Tribe is authorized to lease its Reservation lands for terms up to but not exceeding 99 years, with or without the approval of the Secretary. With regard to any lease of Reservation lands not approved by the Secretary, the Secretary shall be exculpated by the Tribe from any liability arising out of any loss incurred by the Tribe as a result of the unapproved lease.


(m) Non-applicability of BIA land acquisition regulationsThe general land acquisition regulations of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, contained in part 151 of title 25, Code of Federal Regulations, shall not apply to the acquisition of lands authorized by this section.


(Pub. L. 103–116, § 12, Oct. 27, 1993, 107 Stat. 1133.)

Codification
“Sections 3113 and 3114(a) to (d) of title 40” substituted in subsec. (e)(2) for “the first section of the Act of August 1, 1888 (ch. 728, 25 Stat. 357; 40 U.S.C. 257), and the first section of the Act of February 26, 1931 (ch. 307, 46 Stat. 1421; 40 U.S.C. 258a)” on authority of Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c), Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1303, the first section of which enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works.


