§ 6516. Local use of funds(a) Uses of fundsA local educational agency or consortium that receives a subgrant under this part shall provide the subgrant funds to schools that are eligible for assistance under part A of this subchapter and served by the agency, to enable the schools to implement a comprehensive school reform program that—(1) employs proven strategies and proven methods for student learning, teaching, and school management that are based on scientifically based research and effective practices and have been replicated successfully in schools;

(2) integrates a comprehensive design for effective school functioning, including instruction, assessment, classroom management, professional development, parental involvement, and school management, that aligns the school’s curriculum, technology, and professional development into a comprehensive school reform plan for schoolwide change designed to enable all students to meet challenging State content and student academic achievement standards and addresses needs identified through a school needs assessment;

(3) provides high quality and continuous teacher and staff professional development;

(4) includes measurable goals for student academic achievement and benchmarks for meeting such goals;

(5) is supported by teachers, principals, administrators, school personnel staff, and other professional staff;

(6) provides support for teachers, principals, administrators, and other school staff;

(7) provides for the meaningful involvement of parents and the local community in planning, implementing, and evaluating school improvement activities consistent with section 6318 of this title;

(8) uses high quality external technical support and assistance from an entity that has experience and expertise in schoolwide reform and improvement, which may include an institution of higher education;

(9) includes a plan for the annual evaluation of the implementation of school reforms and the student results achieved;

(10) identifies other resources, including Federal, State, local, and private resources, that shall be used to coordinate services that will support and sustain the comprehensive school reform effort; and

(11)(A) has been found, through scientifically based research to significantly improve the academic achievement of students participating in such program as compared to students in schools who have not participated in such program; or

(B) has been found to have strong evidence that such program will significantly improve the academic achievement of participating children.



(b) Special ruleA school that receives funds to develop a comprehensive school reform program shall not be limited to using nationally available approaches, but may develop the school’s own comprehensive school reform program for schoolwide change as described in subsection (a) of this section.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1606, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1604.)
