§ 360f. Banned devices(a) General ruleWhenever the Secretary finds, on the basis of all available data and information, that—(1) a device intended for human use presents substantial deception or an unreasonable and substantial risk of illness or injury; and

(2) in the case of substantial deception or an unreasonable and substantial risk of illness or injury which the Secretary determined could be corrected or eliminated by labeling or change in labeling and with respect to which the Secretary provided written notice to the manufacturer specifying the deception or risk of illness or injury, the labeling or change in labeling to correct the deception or eliminate or reduce such risk, and the period within which such labeling or change in labeling was to be done, such labeling or change in labeling was not done within such period;


he may initiate a proceeding to promulgate a regulation to make such device a banned device.

(b) Special effective dateThe Secretary may declare a proposed regulation under subsection (a) of this section to be effective upon its publication in the Federal Register and until the effective date of any final action taken respecting such regulation if (1) he determines, on the basis of all available data and information, that the deception or risk of illness or injury associated with the use of the device which is subject to the regulation presents an unreasonable, direct, and substantial danger to the health of individuals, and (2) before the date of the publication of such regulation, the Secretary notifies the manufacturer of such device that such regulation is to be made so effective. If the Secretary makes a proposed regulation so effective, he shall, as expeditiously as possible, give interested persons prompt notice of his action under this subsection, provide reasonable opportunity for an informal hearing on the proposed regulation, and either affirm, modify, or revoke such proposed regulation.


(June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 516, as added Pub. L. 94–295, § 2, May 28, 1976, 90 Stat. 560; amended Pub. L. 101–629, § 18(d), Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4529.)

Amendments1990—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 101–629 struck out “and after consultation with the appropriate panel or panels under section 360c of this title” after “data and information” in introductory provisions and struck out at end “The Secretary shall afford all interested persons opportunity for an informal hearing on a regulation proposed under this subsection.”


