§ 2804. Assistance by other agencies(a) Agreements(1) In generalNot later than 180 days after July 29, 2010, the Secretary shall establish procedures to enter into memoranda of agreement for the use (with or without reimbursement) of the personnel or facilities of a Federal, tribal, State, or other government agency to aid in the enforcement or carrying out in Indian country of a law of either the United States or an Indian tribe that has authorized the Secretary to enforce tribal laws.


(2) Certain activitiesThe Secretary may authorize a law enforcement officer of such an agency to perform any activity the Secretary may authorize under section 2803 of this title.


(3) Program enhancement(A) Training sessions in Indian country(i) In generalThe procedures described in paragraph (1) shall include the development of a plan to enhance the certification and provision of special law enforcement commissions to tribal law enforcement officials, and, subject to subsection (d), State and local law enforcement officials, pursuant to this section.


(ii) InclusionsThe plan under clause (i) shall include the hosting of regional training sessions in Indian country, not less frequently than biannually, to educate and certify candidates for the special law enforcement commissions.



(B) Memoranda of agreement(i) In generalNot later than 180 days after July 29, 2010, the Secretary, in consultation with Indian tribes and tribal law enforcement agencies, shall develop minimum requirements to be included in special law enforcement commission agreements pursuant to this section.


(ii) Substance of agreementsEach agreement entered into pursuant to this section shall reflect the status of the applicable certified individual as a Federal law enforcement officer under subsection (f), acting within the scope of the duties described in section 2802(c) of this title.


(iii) AgreementNot later than 60 days after the date on which the Secretary determines that all applicable requirements under clause (i) are met, the Secretary shall offer to enter into a special law enforcement commission agreement with the Indian tribe.





(b) Agreement to be in accord with agreements between Secretary and Attorney GeneralAny agreement entered into under this section relating to the enforcement of the criminal laws of the United States shall be in accord with any agreement between the Secretary and the Attorney General of the United States.


(c) Limitations on use of personnel of non-Federal agencyThe Secretary may not use the personnel of a non-Federal agency under this section in an area of Indian country if the Indian tribe having jurisdiction over such area of Indian country has adopted a resolution objecting to the use of the personnel of such agency. The Secretary shall consult with Indian tribes before entering into any agreement under subsection (a) of this section with a non-Federal agency that will provide personnel for use in any area under the jurisdiction of such Indian tribes.


(d) Authority of Federal agency head to enter into agreement with SecretaryNotwithstanding the provisions of section 1535 of title 31, the head of a Federal agency with law enforcement personnel or facilities may enter into an agreement (with or without reimbursement) with the Secretary under subsection (a) of this section.


(e) Authority of Federal agency head to enter into agreement with Indian tribeThe head of a Federal agency with law enforcement personnel or facilities may enter into an agreement (with or without reimbursement) with an Indian tribe relating to—(1) the law enforcement authority of the Indian tribe, or

(2) the carrying out of a law of either the United States or the Indian tribe.


(f) Status of person as Federal employeeWhile acting under authority granted by the Secretary under subsection (a) of this section, a person who is not otherwise a Federal employee shall be considered to be—(1) an employee of the Department of the Interior only for purposes of—(A) the provisions of law described in section 3374(c)(2) of title 5, and

(B) sections 111 and 1114 of title 18, and


(2) an eligible officer under subchapter III of chapter 81 of title 5.


(g) Acceptance of assistanceThe Bureau may accept reimbursement, resources, assistance, or funding from—(1) a Federal, tribal, State, or other government agency; or

(2) the Indian Law Enforcement Foundation established under section 458ccc–1(a) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title.


(Pub. L. 101–379, § 5, Aug. 18, 1990, 104 Stat. 476; Pub. L. 111–211, title II, § 231(b), (e), July 29, 2010, 124 Stat. 2273, 2278.)


References in TextSection 458ccc–1(a) of this title, referred to in subsec. (g)(2), was in the original “section 701(a) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act”, and was translated as reading “section 702(a) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act”, meaning section 702(a) of Pub. L. 93–638, to reflect the probable intent of Congress, because Pub. L. 93–638 does not contain a section 701(a), and section 702(a) of Pub. L. 93–638 relates to establishment of the Indian Law Enforcement Foundation.

Amendments2010—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 111–211, § 231(b), inserted heading, designated first sentence as par. (1), inserted par. (1) heading, substituted “Not later than 180 days after July 29, 2010, the Secretary shall establish procedures to enter into memoranda of agreement” for “The Secretary may enter into an agreement”, designated second sentence as par. (2), inserted par. (2) heading, and added par. (3).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 111–211, § 231(e), added subsec. (g).


