“SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF LANDS WITHIN SIX RIVERS NATIONAL FOREST FOR HOOPA VALLEY TRIBE.“(a) Transfer.—All right, title, and interest in and to the lands described in subsection (b) shall hereafter be administered by the Secretary of the Interior and be held in trust by the United States for the Hoopa Valley Tribe. The lands are hereby declared part of the Hoopa Valley Reservation. Upon the inclusion of such lands in the Hoopa Valley Reservation, Forest Service system roads numbered 8N03 and 7N51 and the Trinity River access road which is a spur off road numbered 7N51, shall be Indian reservation roads, as defined in section 101(a) of title 23 of the United States Code.

“(b) Lands Described.—The lands referred to in subsection (a) are those portions of Townships 7 North and 8 North, Ranges 5 East and 6 East, Humboldt Meridian, California, within a boundary beginning at a point on the current south boundary of the Hoopa Valley Indian Reservation, marked and identified as ‘Post H.V.R. No. 8’ on the Plat of the Hoopa Valley Indian Reservation prepared from a field survey conducted by C.T. Bissel, Augustus T. Smith, and C.A. Robinson, Deputy Surveyors, approved by the Surveyor General, H. Pratt, March 18, 1892, and extending from said point on a bearing of north 73 degrees 50 minutes east, until intersecting with a line beginning at a point marked as ‘Post H.V.R. No. 3’ on such survey and extending on a bearing of south 14 degrees 36 minutes east, comprising 2,641 acres more or less.

“(c) Boundary Adjustment.—The boundary of the Six Rivers National Forest in the State of California is hereby adjusted to exclude the lands to be held in trust for the benefit of the Hoopa Valley Tribe pursuant to this section.

“(d) Survey.—The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management, shall survey and monument that portion of the boundary of the Hoopa Valley Reservation established by the addition of the lands described in subsection (b).

“(e) Settlement of Claims.—The transfer of lands to trust status under this section extinguishes the following claims by the Hoopa Valley Tribe:“(1) All claims on land now administered as part of the Six Rivers National Forest based on the allegation of error in establishing the boundaries of the Hoopa Valley Reservation, as those boundaries were configured before the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 13, 1997].

“(2) All claims of failure to pay just compensation for a taking under the fifth amendment to the United States Constitution, if such claims are based on activities, occurring before the date of the enactment of this Act, related to the lands transferred to trust status under this section.”


