§ 7634. Malaria response Coordinator(a) In generalThere is established within the United States Agency for International Development a Coordinator of United States Government Activities to Combat Malaria Globally (referred to in this section as the “Malaria Coordinator”), who shall be appointed by the President.


(b) AuthoritiesThe Malaria Coordinator, acting through nongovernmental organizations (including faith-based and community-based organizations), partner country finance, health, and other relevant ministries, and relevant executive branch agencies as may be necessary and appropriate to carry out this section, is authorized to—(1) operate internationally to carry out prevention, care, treatment, support, capacity development, and other activities to reduce the prevalence, mortality, and incidence of malaria;

(2) provide grants to, and enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with, nongovernmental organizations (including faith-based organizations) to carry out this section; and

(3) transfer and allocate executive branch agency funds that have been appropriated for the purposes described in paragraphs (1) and (2).


(c) Duties(1) In generalThe Malaria Coordinator has primary responsibility for the oversight and coordination of all resources and international activities of the United States Government relating to efforts to combat malaria.


(2) Specific dutiesThe Malaria Coordinator shall—(A) facilitate program and policy coordination of antimalarial efforts among relevant executive branch agencies and nongovernmental organizations by auditing, monitoring, and evaluating such programs;

(B) ensure that each relevant executive branch agency undertakes antimalarial programs primarily in those areas in which the agency has the greatest expertise, technical capability, and potential for success;

(C) coordinate relevant executive branch agency activities in the field of malaria prevention and treatment;

(D) coordinate planning, implementation, and evaluation with the Global AIDS Coordinator in countries in which both programs have a significant presence;

(E) coordinate with national governments, international agencies, civil society, and the private sector; and

(F) establish due diligence criteria for all recipients of funds appropriated by the Federal Government for malaria assistance.



(d) Assistance for the World Health OrganizationIn carrying out this section, the President may provide financial assistance to the Roll Back Malaria Partnership of the World Health Organization to improve the capacity of countries with high rates of malaria and other affected countries to implement comprehensive malaria control programs.


(e) Coordination of assistance effortsIn carrying out this section and in accordance with section 2151b–4 of this title, the Malaria Coordinator shall coordinate the provision of assistance by working with—(1) relevant executive branch agencies, including—(A) the Department of State (including the Office of the Global AIDS Coordinator);

(B) the Department of Health and Human Services;

(C) the Department of Defense; and

(D) the Office of the United States Trade Representative;


(2) relevant multilateral institutions, including—(A) the World Health Organization;

(B) the United Nations Children’s Fund;

(C) the United Nations Development Programme;

(D) the Global Fund;

(E) the World Bank; and

(F) the Roll Back Malaria Partnership;


(3) program delivery and efforts to lift barriers that would impede effective and comprehensive malaria control programs; and

(4) partner or recipient country governments and national entities including universities and civil society organizations (including faith- and community-based organizations).


(f) ResearchTo carry out this section, the Malaria Coordinator, in accordance with section 2151b–4 of this title, shall ensure that operations and implementation research conducted under this chapter will closely complement the clinical and program research being undertaken by the National Institutes of Health. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention should advise the Malaria Coordinator on priorities for operations and implementation research and should be a key implementer of this research.


(g) MonitoringTo ensure that adequate malaria controls are established and implemented, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention should advise the Malaria Coordinator on monitoring, surveillance, and evaluation activities and be a key implementer of such activities under this chapter. Such activities shall complement, rather than duplicate, the work of the World Health Organization.


(h) Annual report(1) SubmissionNot later than 1 year after July 30, 2008, and annually thereafter, the President shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees that describes United States assistance for the prevention, treatment, control, and elimination of malaria.


(2) ContentsThe report required under paragraph (1) shall describe—(A) the countries and activities to which malaria resources have been allocated;

(B) the number of people reached through malaria assistance programs, including data on children and pregnant women;

(C) research efforts to develop new tools to combat malaria, including drugs and vaccines;

(D) the collaboration and coordination of United States antimalarial efforts with the World Health Organization, the Global Fund, the World Bank, other donor governments, major private efforts, and relevant executive agencies;

(E) the coordination of United States antimalarial efforts with the national malarial strategies of other donor or partner governments and major private initiatives;

(F) the estimated impact of United States assistance on childhood mortality and morbidity from malaria;

(G) the coordination of antimalarial efforts with broader health and development programs; and

(H) the constraints on implementation of programs posed by health workforce shortages or capacities; and

(I) the number of personnel trained as health workers and the training levels achieved.



(Pub. L. 108–25, title III, § 304, May 27, 2003, 117 Stat. 737; Pub. L. 110–293, title III, § 304, July 30, 2008, 122 Stat. 2961.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (f) and (g), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 108–25, May 27, 2003, 117 Stat. 711, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 7601 of this title and Tables.

Amendments2008—Pub. L. 110–293 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section consisted of subsecs. (a) to (h) relating to a pilot program for the placement of health care professionals in overseas areas severely affected by HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria.


Delegation of Functions
For delegation of functions of President under this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 12163, Sept. 29, 1979, 44 F.R. 56673, as amended, set out as a note under section 2381 of this title.


