§ 212a. Restriction of passports for sex tourism(a) In generalFollowing any conviction of an individual for a violation of section 2423 of title 18, the Attorney General shall notify in a timely manner—(1) the Secretary of State for appropriate action under subsection (b); and

(2) the Secretary of Homeland Security for appropriate action under the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.].


(b) Authority to restrict passport(1) Ineligibility for passport(A) In generalThe Secretary of State shall not issue a passport or passport card to an individual who is convicted of a violation of section 2423 of title 18 during the covered period if the individual used a passport or passport card or otherwise crossed an international border in committing the offense.


(B) Passport revocationThe Secretary of State shall revoke a passport or passport card previously issued to an individual described in subparagraph (A).



(2) Exceptions(A) Emergency and humanitarian situationsNotwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary of State may issue a passport or passport card, in emergency circumstances or for humanitarian reasons, to an individual described in paragraph (1)(A).


(B) Limitation for return to United StatesNotwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary of State may, prior to revocation, limit a previously issued passport or passport card only for return travel to the United States, or may issue a limited passport or passport card that only permits return travel to the United States.



(3) DefinitionsIn this subsection—(A) the term “covered period” means the period beginning on the date on which an individual is convicted of a violation of section 2423 of title 18 and ending on the later of—(i) the date on which the individual is released from a sentence of imprisonment relating to the offense; and

(ii) the end of a period of parole or other supervised release of the covered individual relating to the offense; and


(B) the term “imprisonment” means being confined in or otherwise restricted to a jail, prison, half-way house, treatment facility, or another institution, on a full or part-time basis, pursuant to the sentence imposed as the result of a criminal conviction.



(Pub. L. 110–457, title II, § 236, Dec. 23, 2008, 122 Stat. 5082.)


References in TextThe Immigration and Nationality Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), is act June 27, 1952, ch. 477, 66 Stat. 163, which is classified principally to chapter 12 (§ 1101 et seq.) of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1101 of Title 8 and Tables.


