§ 1638g. Mobile health stations demonstration program(a) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Eligible tribal consortiumThe term “eligible tribal consortium” means a consortium composed of 2 or more Service units between which a mobile health station can be transported by road in up to 8 hours. A Service unit operated by the Service or by an Indian tribe or tribal organization shall be equally eligible for participation in such consortium.


(2) Mobile health stationThe term “mobile health station” means a health care unit that—(A) is constructed, maintained, and capable of being transported within a semi-trailer truck or similar vehicle;

(B) is equipped for the provision of 1 or more specialty health care services; and

(C) can be equipped to be docked to a stationary health care facility when appropriate.


(3) Specialty health care service(A) In generalThe term “specialty health care service” means a health care service which requires the services of a health care professional with specialized knowledge or experience.


(B) InclusionsThe term “specialty health care service” includes any service relating to—(i) dialysis;

(ii) surgery;

(iii) mammography;

(iv) dentistry; or

(v) any other specialty health care service.




(b) EstablishmentThe Secretary, acting through the Service, shall establish a demonstration program under which the Secretary shall provide at least 3 mobile health station projects.


(c) PetitionTo be eligible to receive a mobile health station under the demonstration program, an eligible tribal consortium shall submit to the Secretary, 11 So in original. The comma probably should not appear. a petition at such time, in such manner, and containing—(1) a description of the Indian population to be served;

(2) a description of the specialty service or services for which the mobile health station is requested and the extent to which such service or services are currently available to the Indian population to be served; and

(3) such other information as the Secretary may require.


(d) Use of fundsThe Secretary shall use amounts made available to carry out the demonstration program under this section—(1)(A) to establish, purchase, lease, or maintain mobile health stations for the eligible tribal consortia selected for projects; and

(B) to provide, through the mobile health station, such specialty health care services as the affected eligible tribal consortium determines to be necessary for the Indian population served;


(2) to employ an existing mobile health station (regardless of whether the mobile health station is owned or rented and operated by the Service) to provide specialty health care services to an eligible tribal consortium; and

(3) to establish, purchase, or maintain docking equipment for a mobile health station, including the establishment or maintenance of such equipment at a modular component health care facility (as defined in section 1638f(a) of this title), if applicable.


(e) ReportsNot later than 1 year after the date on which the demonstration program is established under subsection (b) and annually thereafter, the Secretary, acting through the Service, shall submit to Congress a report describing—(1) each activity carried out under the demonstration program including an evaluation of the success of the activity; and

(2) the potential benefits of increased use of mobile health stations to provide specialty health care services for Indian communities.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 per year to carry out the demonstration program under this section for the first 5 fiscal years, and such sums as may be needed to carry out the program in subsequent fiscal years.


(Pub. L. 94–437, title III, § 313, as added Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10221(a), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 935.)

Codification
Section 313 of Pub. L. 94–437 is based on section 147 of title I of S. 1790, One Hundred Eleventh Congress, as reported by the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate in Dec. 2009, which was enacted into law by section 10221(a) of Pub. L. 111–148.


