§ 1535. Supplemental grants for coalition mentoring activities(a) Authority to make grantsAs part of the program established under section 1531 of this title, the Director may award an initial grant under this subsection, and renewal grants under subsection (f) of this section, to any coalition awarded a grant under section 1532 of this title that meets the criteria specified in subsection (d) of this section in order to fund coalition mentoring activities by such coalition in support of the program.


(b) Treatment with other grants(1) SupplementA grant awarded to a coalition under this section is in addition to any grant awarded to the coalition under section 1532 of this title.


(2) Requirement for basic grantA coalition may not be awarded a grant under this section for a fiscal year unless the coalition was awarded a grant or renewal grant under section 1532(b) of this title for that fiscal year.



(c) ApplicationA coalition seeking a grant under this section shall submit to the Administrator an application for the grant in such form and manner as the Administrator may require.


(d) CriteriaA coalition meets the criteria specified in this subsection if the coalition—(1) has been in existence for at least 5 years;

(2) has achieved, by or through its own efforts, measurable results in the prevention and treatment of substance abuse among youth;

(3) has staff or members willing to serve as mentors for persons seeking to start or expand the activities of other coalitions in the prevention and treatment of substance abuse;

(4) has demonstrable support from some members of the community in which the coalition mentoring activities to be supported by the grant under this section are to be carried out; and

(5) submits to the Administrator a detailed plan for the coalition mentoring activities to be supported by the grant under this section.


(e) Use of grant fundsA coalition awarded a grant under this section shall use the grant amount for mentoring activities to support and encourage the development of new, self-supporting community coalitions that are focused on the prevention and treatment of substance abuse in such new coalitions’ communities. The mentoring coalition shall encourage such development in accordance with the plan submitted by the mentoring coalition under subsection (d)(5) of this section.


(f) Renewal grantsThe Administrator may make a renewal grant to any coalition awarded a grant under subsection (a) of this section, or a previous renewal grant under this subsection, if the coalition, at the time of application for such renewal grant—(1) continues to meet the criteria specified in subsection (d) of this section; and

(2) has made demonstrable progress in the development of one or more new, self-supporting community coalitions that are focused on the prevention and treatment of substance abuse.


(g) Grant amounts(1) In generalSubject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the total amount of grants awarded to a coalition under this section for a fiscal year may not exceed the amount of non-Federal funds raised by the coalition, including in-kind contributions, for that fiscal year. Funds appropriated for the substance abuse activities of a coalition that includes a representative of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Indian Health Service, or a tribal government agency with expertise in the field of substance abuse may be counted as non-Federal funds raised by the coalition.


(2) Initial grantsThe amount of the initial grant awarded to a coalition under subsection (a) of this section may not exceed $75,000.


(3) Renewal grantsThe total amount of renewal grants awarded to a coalition under subsection (f) of this section for any fiscal year may not exceed $75,000.



(h) Fiscal year limitation on amount available for grantsThe total amount available for grants under this section, including renewal grants under subsection (f) of this section, in any fiscal year may not exceed the amount equal to five percent of the amount authorized to be appropriated by section 1524(a) of this title for that fiscal year.


(i) Priority in awarding initial grantsIn awarding initial grants under this section, priority shall be given to a coalition that expressly proposes to provide mentorship to a coalition or aspiring coalition serving economically disadvantaged areas.


(Pub. L. 100–690, title I, § 1035, as added Pub. L. 107–82, § 2, Dec. 14, 2001, 115 Stat. 819.)
