§ 7351. Program authorized(a) Grants to States(1) In generalFrom amounts appropriated under section 7355c of this title for this subpart for a fiscal year that are not reserved under subsection (c) of this section, the Secretary shall award grants (from allotments made under paragraph (2)) for the fiscal year to State educational agencies that have applications submitted under section 7351b of this title approved to enable the State educational agencies to award grants to eligible local educational agencies for local authorized activities described in section 7351a(a) of this title.


(2) AllotmentFrom amounts described in paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall allot to each State educational agency for that fiscal year an amount that bears the same ratio to those amounts as the number of students in average daily attendance served by eligible local educational agencies in the State for that fiscal year bears to the number of all such students served by eligible local educational agencies in all States for that fiscal year.


(3) Specially qualified agencies(A) Eligibility and applicationIf a State educational agency elects not to participate in the program under this subpart or does not have an application submitted under section 7351b of this title approved, a specially qualified agency in such State desiring a grant under this subpart may submit an application under such section directly to the Secretary to receive an award under this subpart.


(B) Direct awardsThe Secretary may award, on a competitive basis or by formula, the amount the State educational agency is eligible to receive under paragraph (2) directly to a specially qualified agency in the State that has submitted an application in accordance with subparagraph (A) and obtained approval of the application.


(C) Specially qualified agency definedIn this subpart, the term “specially qualified agency” means an eligible local educational agency served by a State educational agency that does not participate in a program under this subpart in a fiscal year, that may apply directly to the Secretary for a grant in such year under this subsection.




(b) Local awards(1) EligibilityA local educational agency shall be eligible to receive a grant under this subpart if—(A) 20 percent or more of the children ages 5 through 17 years served by the local educational agency are from families with incomes below the poverty line; and

(B) all of the schools served by the agency are designated with a school locale code of 6, 7, or 8, as determined by the Secretary.


(2) Award basisA State educational agency shall award grants to eligible local educational agencies—(A) on a competitive basis;

(B) according to a formula based on the number of students in average daily attendance served by the eligible local educational agencies or schools in the State; or

(C) according to an alternative formula, if, prior to awarding the grants, the State educational agency demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that the alternative formula enables the State educational agency to allot the grant funds in a manner that serves equal or greater concentrations of children from families with incomes below the poverty line, relative to the concentrations that would be served if the State educational agency used the formula described in subparagraph (B).



(c) ReservationsFrom amounts appropriated under section 7355c of this title for this subpart for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall reserve—(1) one-half of 1 percent to make awards to elementary schools or secondary schools operated or supported by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, to carry out the activities authorized under this subpart; and

(2) one-half of 1 percent to make awards to the outlying areas in accordance with their respective needs, to carry out the activities authorized under this subpart.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title VI, § 6221, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title VI, § 601, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1894.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 7351, Pub. L. 89–10, title VI, § 6301, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3711; amended Pub. L. 105–278, § 2(2), Oct. 22, 1998, 112 Stat. 2682, related to targeted use of funds for local innovative education programs, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110. See section 7215 of this title.


