“SEC. 5211. DEFINITIONS.“In this subtitle, the following definitions apply:“(1) Commercial vehicle information systems and networks.—The term ‘Commercial Vehicle Information Systems and Networks’ means the information systems and communications networks that support commercial vehicle operations.

“(2) Commercial vehicle operations.—The term ‘commercial vehicle operations’—“(A) means motor carrier operations and motor vehicle regulatory activities associated with the commercial movement of goods, including hazardous materials, and passengers; and

“(B) with respect to the public sector, includes the issuance of operating credentials, the administration of motor vehicle and fuel taxes, and roadside safety and border crossing inspection and regulatory compliance operations.


“(3) Corridor.—The term ‘corridor’ means any major transportation route that includes parallel limited access highways, major arterials, or transit lines.

“(4) Intelligent transportation infrastructure.—The term ‘intelligent transportation infrastructure’ means fully integrated public sector intelligent transportation system components, as defined by the Secretary.

“(5) Intelligent transportation system.—The term ‘intelligent transportation system’ means electronics, communications, or information processing used singly or in combination to improve the efficiency or safety of a surface transportation system.

“(6) National architecture.—The term ‘national architecture’ means the common framework for interoperability adopted by the Secretary that defines—“(A) the functions associated with intelligent transportation system user services;

“(B) the physical entities or subsystems within which the functions reside;

“(C) the data interfaces and information flows between physical subsystems; and

“(D) the communications requirements associated with the information flows.


“(7) Standard.—The term ‘standard’ means a document that—“(A) contains technical specifications or other precise criteria for intelligent transportation systems that are to be used consistently as rules, guidelines, or definitions of characteristics so as to ensure that materials, products, processes, and services are fit for their purposes; and

“(B) may support the national architecture and promote—“(i) the widespread use and adoption of intelligent transportation system technology as a component of the surface transportation systems of the United States; and

“(ii) interoperability among intelligent transportation system technologies implemented throughout the States.



“(8) State.—The term ‘State’ has the meaning given the term under section 101 of title 23, United States Code.

