§ 262m–2. Environmental impact of assistance proposals(a) Analysis by agencies, United States embassies and overseas missions of Agency for International Development; factors considered; affirmative investigation of adverse impacts; availability of information to public(1) In the course of reviewing assistance proposals of the multilateral development banks, the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State, shall ensure that other agencies and appropriate United States embassies and overseas missions of the Agency for International Development are instructed to analyze, where feasible, the environmental impacts of multilateral development loans well in advance of such loans’ approval by the relevant institutions to determine whether the proposals will contribute to the sustainable development of the borrowing country.

(2) To the extent possible, such reviews shall address the economic viability of the project, adverse impacts on the environment, natural resources, public health, and indigenous peoples, and recommendations as to measures, including alternatives, that could eliminate or mitigate adverse impacts.

(3) If there is reason to believe that any such loan is particularly likely to have substantial adverse impacts, the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State, shall ensure that an affirmative investigation of such impacts is undertaken in consultation with relevant Federal agencies. If not classified under the national security system of classification, the information collected pursuant to this paragraph shall be made available to the public.


(b) Evaluation by major shareholder governments prior to bank action on assistance proposals(1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the Executive Directors representing the United States at the multilateral development banks as defined in section 262m–7(g) of this title to urge the management and other directors of each such bank, to provide sufficient time between the circulation of assistance proposals and bank action on those proposals, in order to permit their evaluation by major shareholder governments.

(2) The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct such Executive Directors to work with other countries’ Executive Directors and multilateral development bank management to—(A) improve the procedures of each multilateral development bank for providing its board of directors with a complete and accurate record regarding public consultation before they vote on proposed projects with significant environmental implications; and

(B) revise bank procedures to consistently require public consultation on operational policy proposals or revisions that have significant environmental or social implications.


(3) Progress under this subsection shall be incorporated into Treasury’s required annual report to Congress on the environmental performance of the multilateral development banks.


(c) Identification of proposals likely to have adverse impact; transmittal to CongressBased on the information obtained during the evaluation referred to in subsection (a) of this section and other available information, the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State, shall identify those assistance proposals likely to have adverse impacts on the environment, natural resources, public health, or indigenous peoples. The proposals so identified shall be transmitted to the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, not later than June 30 and December 31 of each year following December 22, 1987.


(d) Reports to Executive Directors; elimination or mitigation of adverse impactsThe Secretary of the Treasury shall forward reports concerning information received under subsection (a) of this section to the Executive Director representing the United States in the appropriate bank with instructions to seek to eliminate or mitigate adverse impacts which may result from the proposal.


(Pub. L. 95–118, title XIII, § 1303, as added Pub. L. 100–202, § 101(e) [title I], Dec. 22, 1987, 101 Stat. 1329–131, 1329–134; amended Pub. L. 108–447, div. D, title V, § 593(b), Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 3037.)

Codification
Section 1303 of Pub. L. 95–118 is based on section 701 of title VII of H.R. 3750, One Hundredth Congress, as introduced Dec. 11, 1987, and enacted into law by Pub. L. 100–202.

Amendments2004—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 108–447, § 593(b), designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added pars. (2) and (3).
Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 108–447, § 593(b)(1), which directed amendment of par. (1) by substituting “multilateral development banks as defined in section 262m–7(g) of this title” for “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank”, was executed by making substitution for “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, and the African Development Bank”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.


Change of Name
Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives by section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress. Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives abolished and replaced by Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred from Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.


