§ 286f. Obtaining and furnishing information to the Fund(a) Required disclosureWhenever a request is made by the Fund to the United States as a member to furnish data under article VIII, section 5, of the Articles of Agreement of the Fund, the President may, through any agency he may designate, require any person to furnish such information as the President may determine to be essential to comply with such request. In making such determination the President shall seek to collect the information only in such detail as is necessary to comply with the request of the Fund. No information so acquired shall be furnished to the Fund in such detail that the affairs of any person are disclosed.


(b) Penalty for refusalIn the event any person refuses to furnish such information when requested to do so, the President, through any designated governmental agency, may by subpoena require such person to appear and testify or to appear and produce records and other documents, or both. In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena served upon any such person, the district court for any district in which such person is found or resides or transacts business, upon application by the President or any governmental agency designated by him, shall have jurisdiction to issue an order requiring such person to appear and give testimony or appear and produce records and documents, or both; and any failure to obey such order of the court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof.


(c) Penalty for unlawful disclosuresIt shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the Government, or for any advisor or consultant to the Government, to disclose, otherwise than in the course of official duty, any information obtained under this section, or to use any such information for his personal benefit. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this subsection shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $5,000, or imprisoned for not more than five years, or both.


(d) “Person” definedThe term “person” as used in this section means an individual, partnership, corporation or association.


(July 31, 1945, ch. 339, § 8, 59 Stat. 515.)


Ex. Ord. No. 10033. Regulations Governing the Providing of Statistical Information to Intergovernmental Organizations
Ex. Ord. No. 10033, Feb. 8, 1949, 14 F.R. 561, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 11269, Feb. 14, 1966, 31 F.R. 2813; Ex. Ord. No. 12013, Oct. 7, 1977, 42 F.R. 54931; Ex. Ord. No. 12318, Aug. 21, 1981, 46 F.R. 42833, provided:
Section 1. Except as provided in section 2 hereof, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, hereinafter referred to as the Director, (a) shall determine, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, what statistical information shall be provided in response to official requests received by the United States Government from any intergovernmental organization of which this country is a member, and (b) shall determine which Federal executive agency or agencies shall prepare the statistical information thus to be provided. The statistical information so prepared shall be transmitted to the requesting intergovernmental organization through established channels by the Secretary of State or by any Federal executive agency now or hereafter authorized by the Secretary of State to transmit such information.
Sec. 2. (a) The National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies, hereinafter referred to as the National Advisory Council, shall determine, after consultation with the Director, what information is essential in order that the United States Government may comply with official requests for information received from the International Monetary Fund or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
(b) The Director shall determine which Federal executive agency or agencies shall collect or make available information found essential under section 2(a) hereof.
(c) In the collection of information pursuant to a determination made by the Director under section 2(b) hereof in response to a request under article VIII, section 5, of the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, the authority conferred on the President by section 8 of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act [this section] to require any person to furnish such information, by subpoena or otherwise, may be exercised by each of the following-named agencies:
Department of Agriculture.
Department of Commerce.
Department of the Interior.
Department of Labor.
Department of the Treasury.
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Federal Communications Commission.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Federal Power Commission.
Federal Trade Commission.
Interstate Commerce Commission.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
United States Maritime Commission.
United States Tariff Commission [now the United States International Trade Commission].
(d) The information collected or made available under section 2 of this order shall be submitted to the National Advisory Council for review and for presentation to the said Fund or Bank.
(e) As used in this order, the word “person” means an individual, partnership, corporation, or association.
Sec. 3. The Director’s determination of any matter under section 1 or section 2(b) of this order shall be made after consulting appropriate Federal executive agencies and giving due consideration to any responsibility now exercised by any of them in relation to an intergovernmental organization.
Sec. 4. This order shall not be construed to authorize the Director or the National Advisory Council to provide, or to require any Federal executive agency to provide, to an intergovernmental organization (a) information during any period of time when the agency having primary responsibility for security of the specified information declares that it must be withheld from the intergovernmental organization in the interest of military security, or (b) information which any Federal executive agency is required by law to maintain on a confidential basis.
Sec. 5. The Director and the National Advisory Council are authorized to prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out their respective responsibilities under this order.
Sec. 6. To the extent that this order conflicts with any previous Executive order, the provisions of this order shall control.
Sec. 7. [Revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 12318, Aug. 21, 1981, 46 F.R. 42833]


