§ 1092e. College access initiative(a) State-by-State informationThe Secretary shall direct each guaranty agency with which the Secretary has an agreement under section 1078(c) of this title to provide to the Secretary the information necessary for the development of Internet web links and access for students and families to a comprehensive listing of the postsecondary education opportunities, programs, publications, Internet web sites, and other services available in the States for which such agency serves as the designated guarantor.


(b) Guaranty agency activities(1) Plan and activity requiredEach guaranty agency with which the Secretary has an agreement under section 1078(c) of this title shall develop a plan, and undertake the activity necessary, to gather the information required under subsection (a) and to make such information available to the public and to the Secretary in a form and manner as prescribed by the Secretary.


(2) ActivitiesEach guaranty agency shall undertake such activities as are necessary to promote access to postsecondary education for students through providing information on college planning, career preparation, and paying for college. The guaranty agency shall publicize such information and coordinate such activities with other entities that either provide or distribute such information in the States for which such guaranty agency serves as the designated guarantor.


(3) FundingThe activities required by this section may be funded from the guaranty agency’s Operating Fund established pursuant to section 1072b of this title and, to the extent funds remain, from earnings on the restricted account established pursuant to section 1072(h)(4) of this title.


(4) Rule of constructionNothing in this subsection shall be construed to require a guaranty agency to duplicate any efforts under way on February 8, 2006, that meet the requirements of this section.



(c) Access to information(1) Secretary’s responsibilityThe Secretary shall ensure the availability of the information provided, by the guaranty agencies in accordance with this section, to students, parents, and other interested individuals, through Internet web links or other methods prescribed by the Secretary.


(2) Guaranty agency responsibilityThe guaranty agencies shall ensure that the information required by this section is available without charge in printed format for students and parents requesting such information.


(3) PublicityNot later than 270 days after February 8, 2006, the Secretary and guaranty agencies shall publicize the availability of the information required by this section, with special emphasis on ensuring that populations that are traditionally underrepresented in postsecondary education are made aware of the availability of such information.



(Pub. L. 89–329, title IV, § 485D, as added Pub. L. 109–171, title VIII, § 8023, Feb. 8, 2006, 120 Stat. 179.)

Effective DateSection effective July 1, 2006, except as otherwise provided, see section 8001(c) of Pub. L. 109–171, set out as an Effective Date of 2006 Amendment note under section 1002 of this title.


