§ 715c. Transfer of land to be held in trust(a) Lands to be taken in trustThe Secretary shall accept any real property located in Coos and Curry Counties not to exceed one thousand acres for the benefit of the Tribe if conveyed or otherwise transferred to the Secretary: Provided, That, at the time of such acceptance, there are no adverse legal claims on such property including outstanding liens, mortgages, or taxes owed. The Secretary may accept any additional acreage in the Tribe’s service area pursuant to his authority under the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984) [25 U.S.C. 461 et seq.].


(b) Lands to be part of reservationSubject to the conditions imposed by this section, the land transferred shall be taken in the name of the United States in trust for the Tribe and shall be part of its reservation.


(c) Lands to be nontaxableAny real property taken into trust for the benefit of the Tribe under this section shall be exempt from all local, State, and Federal taxation as of the date of transfer.


(d) Creation of Coquille Forest(1) DefinitionsIn this subsection:(A) the 11 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. term “Coquille Forest” means certain lands in Coos County, Oregon, comprising approximately 5,400 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled “Coquille Forest Proposal”, dated July 8, 1996.

(B) the 1 term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.

(C) the 1 term “the Tribe” means the Coquille Tribe of Coos County, Oregon.


(2) MapThe map described in subparagraph (d)(1)(A), and such additional legal descriptions which are applicable, shall be placed on file at the local District Office of the Bureau of Land Management, the Agency Office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and with the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the House Committee on Resources.


(3) Interim periodFrom September 30, 1996, until two years after September 30, 1996, the Bureau of Land Management shall:(A) retain Federal jurisdiction for the management of lands designated under this subsection as the Coquille Forest and continue to distribute revenues from such lands in a manner consistent with existing law; and,22 So in original. The comma probably should not appear.

(B) prior to advertising, offering or awarding any timber sale contract on lands designated under this subsection as the Coquille Forest, obtain the approval of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, acting on behalf of and in consultation with the Tribe.


(4) Transition planning and designation(A) During the two year interim period provided for in paragraph (3), the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, acting on behalf of and in consultation with the Tribe, is authorized to initiate development of a forest management plan for the Coquille Forest. The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall cooperate and assist in the development of such plan and in the transition of forestry management operations for the Coquille Forest to the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs.

(B) Two years after September 30, 1996, the Secretary shall take the lands identified under subparagraph (d)(1)(A) into trust, and shall hold such lands in trust, in perpetuity, for the Coquille Tribe. Such lands shall be thereafter designated as the Coquille Forest.

(C) So as to maintain the current flow of revenue from land subject to the Act entitled “An Act relating to the revested Oregon and California Railroad and reconveyed Coos Bay Wagon Road grant land situated in the State of Oregon” (the O&amp;C Act), approved August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 1181a et seq.), the Secretary shall redesignate, from public domain lands within the tribe’s service area, as defined in this subchapter, certain lands to be subject to the O&amp;C Act. Lands redesignated under this subparagraph shall not exceed lands sufficient to constitute equivalent timber value as compared to lands constituting the Coquille Forest.


(5) ManagementThe Secretary of 33 So in original. Probably should be followed by “the”. Interior, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, shall manage the Coquille Forest under applicable State and Federal forestry and environmental protection laws, and subject to critical habitat designations under the Endangered Species Act [16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.], and subject to the standards and guidelines of Federal forest plans on adjacent or nearby Federal lands, now and in the future. The Secretary shall otherwise manage the Coquille Forest in accordance with the laws pertaining to the management of Indian Trust 44 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. lands and shall distribute revenues in accord with Public Law 101–630, 25 U.S.C. 3107.(A) Unprocessed logs harvested from the Coquille Forest shall be subject to the same Federal statutory restrictions on export to foreign Nations 4 that apply to unprocessed logs harvested from Federal lands.

(B) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all sales of timber from land subject to this subsection shall be advertised, offered and awarded according to competitive bidding practices, with sales being awarded to the highest responsible bidder.


(6) Indian Self-Determination Act agreementNo sooner than two years after September 30, 1996, the Secretary may, upon a satisfactory showing of management competence and pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act [25 U.S.C. 450f et seq.], enter into a binding Indian self-determination agreement (agreement) with the Coquille Indian Tribe. Such agreement may provide for the tribe to carry out all or a portion of the forest management for the Coquille Forest.(A) Prior to entering such an agreement, and as a condition of maintaining such an agreement, the Secretary must find that the Coquille Tribe has entered into a binding memorandum of agreement (MOA) with the State of Oregon, as required under paragraph 7.55 So in original. Probably should be paragraph “(7)”.

(B) The authority of the Secretary to rescind the Indian self-determination agreement shall not be encumbered.(i) The Secretary shall rescind the agreement upon a demonstration that the tribe and the State of Oregon are no longer engaged in a memorandum of agreement as required under paragraph 7.5

(ii) The Secretary may rescind the agreement on a showing that the Tribe has managed the Coquille Forest in a manner inconsistent with this subsection, or the Tribe is no longer managing, or capable of managing, the Coquille Forest in a manner consistent with this subsection.



(7) Memorandum of agreementThe Coquille Tribe shall enter into a memorandum of agreement (MOA) with the State of Oregon relating to the establishment and management of the Coquille Forest. The MOA shall include, but not be limited to, the terms and conditions for managing the Coquille Forest in a manner consistent with paragraph (5) of this subsection, preserving public access, advancing jointly-held resource management goals, achieving tribal restoration objectives and establishing a coordinated management framework. Further, provisions set forth in the MOA shall be consistent with federal 1 trust responsibility requirements applicable to Indian trust lands and paragraph (5) of this subsection.


(8) Public accessThe Coquille Forest shall remain open to public access for purposes of hunting, fishing, recreation and transportation, except when closure is required by state 1 or federal 1 law, or when the Coquille Indian Tribe and the State of Oregon agree in writing that restrictions on access are necessary or appropriate to prevent harm to natural resources, cultural resources or environmental quality; 66 So in original. The semicolon probably should be a colon. Provided, That the State of Oregon’s agreement shall not be required when immediate action is necessary to protect archaeological resources.


(9) Jurisdiction(A) The United States District Court for the District of Oregon shall have jurisdiction over actions against the Secretary arising out of claims that this subsection has been violated. Consistent with existing precedents on standing to sue, any affected citizen may bring suit against the Secretary for violations of this subsection, except that suit may not be brought against the Secretary for claims that the MOA has been violated. The Court has the authority to hold unlawful and set aside actions pursuant to this subsection that are arbitrary and capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise an abuse of law.

(B) The United States District Court for the District of Oregon shall have jurisdiction over actions between the State of Oregon and the Tribe arising out of claims of breach of the MOA.

(C) Unless otherwise provided for by law, remedies available under this subsection shall be limited to equitable relief and shall not include damages.


(10) State regulatory and civil jurisdictionIn addition to the jurisdiction described in paragraph 7 5 of this subsection, the State of Oregon may exercise exclusive regulatory civil jurisdiction, including but not limited to adoption and enforcement of administrative rules and orders, over the following subjects:(A) management, allocation and administration of fish and wildlife resources, including but not limited to establishment and enforcement of hunting and fishing seasons, bag limits, limits on equipment and methods, issuance of permits and licenses, and approval or disapproval of hatcheries, game farms, and other breeding facilities; 6 Provided, That nothing herein shall be construed to permit the State of Oregon to manage fish or wildlife habitat on Coquille Forest lands;

(B) allocation and administration of water rights, appropriation of water and use of water;

(C) regulation of boating activities, including equipment and registration requirements, and protection of the public’s right to use the waterways for purposes of boating or other navigation;

(D) fills and removals from waters of the State, as defined in Oregon law;

(E) protection and management of the State’s proprietary interests in the beds and banks of navigable waterways;

(F) regulation of mining, mine reclamation activities, and exploration and drilling for oil and gas deposits;

(G) regulation of water quality, air quality (including smoke management), solid and hazardous waste, and remediation of releases of hazardous substances;

(H) regulation of the use of herbicides and pesticides; and

(I) enforcement of public health and safety standards, including standards for the protection of workers, well construction and codes governing the construction of bridges, buildings, and other structures.


(11) Savings clause, State authority(A) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to grant tribal authority over private or State-owned lands.

(B) To the extend 77 So in original. Probably should be “extent”. that the State of Oregon is regulating the foregoing areas pursuant to a delegated Federal authority or a Federal program, nothing in this subsection shall be construed to enlarge or diminish the State’s authority under such law.

(C) Where both the State of Oregon and the United States are regulating, nothing herein shall be construed to alter their respective authorities.

(D) To the extent that Federal law authorizes the Coquille Indian Tribe to assume regulatory authority over an area, nothing herein shall be construed to enlarge or diminish the tribe’s 1 authority to do so under such law.

(E) Unless and except to the extent that the tribe 1 has assumed jurisdiction over the Coquille Forest pursuant to Federal law, or otherwise with the consent of the State, the State of Oregon shall have jurisdiction and authority to enforce its laws addressing the subjects listed in subparagraph 10 88 So in original. Probably should be “paragraph (10)”. of this subsection on the Coquille Forest against the Coquille Indian Tribe, its members and all other persons and entities, in the same manner and with the same remedies and protections and appeal rights as otherwise provided by general Oregon law. Where the State of Oregon and Coquille Indian Tribe agree regarding the exercise of tribal civil regulatory jurisdiction over activities on the Coquille Forest lands, the tribe 1 may exercise such jurisdiction as its 99 So in original. Probably should be “is”. agreed upon.


(12) Conflict between lawsIn the event of a conflict between Federal and State law under this subsection, Federal law shall control.



(Pub. L. 101–42, § 5, June 28, 1989, 103 Stat. 92; Pub. L. 104–208, div. B, title V, § 501, Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–537.)


References in TextAct of June 18, 1934, referred to in subsec. (a), popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 461 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 461 of this title and Tables.
The Act entitled “An Act relating to the revested Oregon and California Railroad and reconveyed Coos Bay Wagon Road grant land situated in the State of Oregon” (the O&amp;C Act), approved August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 1181a et seq.), referred to in subsec. (d)(4)(C), is act Aug. 28, 1937, ch. 876, 50 Stat. 874, which enacted sections 1181a to 1181f of Title 43, Public Lands, repealed section 1174 of Title 43, and enacted provisions set out as a note under section 1181a of Title 43. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
The Endangered Species Act, referred to in subsec. (d)(5), probably means the Endangered Species Act of 1973, Pub. L. 93–205, Dec. 28, 1973, 87 Stat. 884, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 1531 et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1531 of Title 16 and Tables.
Public Law 101–630, 25 U.S.C. 3107, referred to in subsec. (d)(5), is probably a reference to section 308 of Pub. L. 101–630, which is classified to section 3107 of this title.
The Indian Self-Determination Act, referred to in subsec. (d)(6), is title I of Pub. L. 93–638, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2206, as amended, which is classified principally to part A (§ 450f et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 14 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 450 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1996—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–208 added subsec. (d).


Change of Name
Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


