§ 1300g–4. Provisions relating to tribal reservation(a) Federal reservation establishedThe reservation is hereby declared to be a Federal Indian reservation for the use and benefit of the tribe without regard to whether legal title to such lands is held in trust by the Secretary.


(b) Conveyance of land by StateThe Secretary shall—(1) accept any offer from the State to convey title to any land within the reservation held in trust on August 18, 1987, by the State or by the Texas Indian Commission for the benefit of the tribe to the Secretary, and

(2) hold such title, upon conveyance by the State, in trust for the benefit of the tribe.


(c) Conveyance of land by tribeAt the written request of the Tribal Council, the Secretary shall—(1) accept conveyance by the tribe of title to any land within the reservation held by the tribe on August 18, 1987, to the Secretary, and

(2) hold such title, upon such conveyance by the tribe, in trust for the benefit of the tribe.


(d) Approval of deed by Attorney GeneralNotwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, the Attorney General of the United States shall approve any deed or other instrument which conveys title to land within El Paso or Hudspeth Counties, Texas, to the United States to be held in trust by the Secretary for the benefit of the tribe.


(e) Permanent improvements authorizedNotwithstanding any other provision of law or rule of law, the Secretary or the tribe may erect permanent improvements, improvements of substantial value, or any other improvement authorized by law on the reservation without regard to whether legal title to such lands has been conveyed to the Secretary by the State or the tribe.


(f) Civil and criminal jurisdiction within reservationThe State shall exercise civil and criminal jurisdiction within the boundaries of the reservation as if such State had assumed such jurisdiction with the consent of the tribe under sections 1321 and 1322 of this title.


(g) Acquisition of land by tribe after August 18, 1987(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Tribal Council may, on behalf of the tribe—(A) acquire land located within El Paso County, or Hudspeth County, Texas, after August 18, 1987, and take title to such land in fee simple, and

(B) lease, sell, or otherwise dispose of such land in the same manner in which a private person may do so under the laws of the State.


(2) At the written request of the Tribal Council, the Secretary may—(A) accept conveyance to the Secretary by the Tribal Council (on behalf of the tribe) of title to any land located within El Paso County, or Hudspeth County, Texas, that is acquired by the Tribal Council in fee simple after August 18, 1987, and

(B) hold such title, upon such conveyance by the Tribal Council, in trust for the benefit of the tribe.



(Pub. L. 100–89, title I, § 105, Aug. 18, 1987, 101 Stat. 667.)
