“Sec. 15. (a)(1) The Administrator and the Secretary shall jointly provide for an outreach and public information program—“(A) to inform veterans about the employment and job training opportunities available under this Act, under chapters 31, 34, 36, 41, and 42 of title 38, United States Code, and under other provisions of law; and

“(B) to inform private industry and business concerns (including small business concerns), public agencies and organizations, educational institutions, trade associations, and labor unions about the job training opportunities available under, and the advantages of participating in, the program established by this Act.


“(2) The Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator, shall promote the development of employment and job training opportunities for veterans by encouraging potential employers to make programs of job training under this Act available for eligible veterans, by advising other appropriate Federal departments and agencies of the program established by this Act, and by advising employers of applicable responsibilities under chapters 41 and 42 of title 38, United States Code, with respect to veterans.


“(b) The Administrator and the Secretary shall coordinate the outreach and public information program under subsection (a)(1), and job development activities under subsection (a)(2), with job counseling, placement, job development, and other services provided for under chapters 41 and 42 of title 38, United States Code, and with other similar services offered by other public agencies and organizations.

“(c)(1) The Administrator and the Secretary shall make available in regional and local offices of the Veterans’ Administration and the Department of Labor such personnel as are necessary to facilitate the effective implementation of this Act.

“(2) In carrying out the responsibilities of the Secretary under this Act, the Secretary shall make maximum use of the services of Directors and Assistant Directors for Veterans’ Employment and Training, disabled veterans’ outreach program specialists, and employees of local offices appointed pursuant to sections 4103, 4103A, and 4104 of title 38, United States Code. The Secretary shall also use such resources as are available under title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.]. To the extent that the Administrator withholds approval of veterans’ applications under this Act pursuant to section 5(b)(2)(B), the Secretary shall take steps to assist such veterans in taking advantage of opportunities that may be available to them under title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.] or under any other program carried out with funds provided by the Secretary.


“(d) The Secretary shall request and obtain from the Administrator of the Small Business Administration a list of small business concerns and shall, on a regular basis, update such list. Such list shall be used to identify and promote possible training and employment opportunities for veterans.

“(e) The Administrator and the Secretary shall assist veterans and employers desiring to participate under this Act in making application and completing necessary certifications.

“(f) The Secretary shall, on a not less frequent than quarterly basis, collect and compile from the heads of State employment services and Directors for Veterans’ Employment and Training for each State information available to such heads and Directors, and derived from programs carried out in their respective States, with respect to the numbers of veterans who receive counseling services pursuant to section 14, who are referred to employers participating under this Act, who participate in programs of job training under this Act, and who complete such programs, and the reasons for veterans’ noncompletion.

