“SEC. 12. WATER RIGHTS.“(a) In General.—“(1) Water rights.—Subject to the other provisions of this section, newly acquired trust lands shall have only the following water rights:“(A) The right to the reasonable use of groundwater pumped from such lands.

“(B) All rights to the use of surface water on such lands existing under State law on the date of acquisition, with the priority date of such right under State law.

“(C) The right to make any further beneficial use on such lands of surface water which is unappropriated on the date each parcel of newly acquired trust lands is taken into trust. The priority date for the right shall be the date the lands are taken into trust.


“(2) Rights not subject to forfeiture or abandonment.—The Tribe’s water rights for newly acquired trust lands shall not be subject to forfeiture or abandonment arising from events occurring after the date the lands are taken into trust.


“(b) Recognition as valid uses.—“(1) Groundwater.—With respect to water rights associated with newly acquired trust lands, the Tribe, and the United States on the Tribe’s behalf, shall recognize as valid all uses of groundwater which may be made from wells (or their subsequent replacements) in existence on the date each parcel of newly acquired trust land is acquired and shall not object to such groundwater uses on the basis of water rights associated with the newly acquired trust lands. The Tribe, and the United States on the Tribe’s behalf, may object only to the impact of groundwater uses on newly acquired trust lands which are initiated after the date the lands affected are taken into trust and only on grounds allowed by the State law as it exists when the objection is made. The Tribe, and the United States on the Tribe’s behalf, shall not object to the impact of groundwater uses on the Tribe’s right to surface water established pursuant to subsection (a)(1)(C) when those groundwater uses are initiated before the Tribe initiates its beneficial use of surface water pursuant to subsection (a)(1)(C).

“(2) Surface water.—With respect to water rights associated with newly acquired trust lands, the Tribe, and the United States on the Tribe’s behalf, shall recognize as valid all uses of surface water in existence on or prior to the date each parcel of newly acquired trust land is acquired and shall not object to such surface water uses on the basis of water rights associated with the newly acquired trust lands, but shall have the right to enforce the priority of its rights against all junior water rights the exercise of which interfere with the actual use of the Tribe’s senior surface water rights.

“(3) Rule of construction.—Nothing in paragraph (1) or (2) shall preclude the Tribe, or the United States on the Tribe’s behalf, from asserting objections to water rights and uses on the basis of the Tribe’s water rights on its currently existing trust lands.


“(c) Applicability of State Law on Lands Other Than Newly Acquired Lands.—The Tribe, and the United States on the Tribe’s behalf, further recognize that State law applies to water uses on lands, including subsurface estates, that exist within the exterior boundaries of newly acquired trust lands and that are owned by any party other than the Tribe.

“(d) Adjudication of Water Rights on Newly Acquired Trust Lands.—The Tribe’s water rights on newly acquired trust lands shall be adjudicated with the rights of all other competing users in the court now presiding over the Little Colorado River Adjudication, or if that court no longer has jurisdiction, in the appropriate State or Federal court. Any controversies between or among users arising under Federal or State law involving the Tribe’s water rights on newly acquired trust lands shall be resolved in the court now presiding over the Little Colorado River Adjudication, or, if that court no longer has jurisdiction, in the appropriate State or Federal court. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to affect any court’s jurisdiction: Provided, That the Tribe shall administer all water rights established in subsection (a).

“(e) Prohibition.—Water rights for newly acquired trust lands shall not be used, leased, sold, or transported for use off of such lands or the Tribe’s other trust lands: Provided, That the Tribe may agree with other persons having junior water rights to subordinate the Tribe’s senior water rights. Water rights for newly acquired trust lands can only be used on those lands or other trust lands of the Tribe located within the same river basin tributary to the main stream of the Colorado River.

“(f) Subsurface Interests.—On any newly acquired trust lands where the subsurface interest is owned by any party other than the Tribe, the trust status of the surface ownership shall not impair any existing right of the subsurface owner to develop the subsurface interest and to have access to the surface for the purpose of such development.

“(g) Statutory Construction with Respect to Water Rights of Other Federally Recognized Indian Tribes.—Nothing in this section shall affect the water rights of any other federally recognized Indian tribe with a priority date earlier than the date the newly acquired trust lands are taken into trust.

“(h) Statutory Construction.—Nothing in this section shall be construed to determine the law applicable to water use on lands owned by the United States, other than on the newly acquired trust lands. The granting of the right to make beneficial use of unappropriated surface water on the newly acquired trust lands with a priority date such lands are taken into trust shall not be construed to imply that such right is a Federal reserved water right. Nothing in this section or any other provision of this Act shall be construed to establish any Federal reserved right to groundwater. Authority for the Secretary to take land into trust for the Tribe pursuant to the Settlement Agreement and this Act shall be construed as having been provided solely by the provisions of this Act.”

