§ 1771f. Definitions
For the purposes of this subchapter:(1) Cook landsThe term “Cook lands” means the lands described in paragraph (5) of the Settlement Agreement.


(2) Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc.The term “Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc.” means the tribal entity recognized by the Secretary of the Interior as having a government to government relationship with the United States. The Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc. is the sole and legitimate tribal entity which has a claim under the Trade and Intercourse Act of 1790, Act of July 22, 1790 (ch. 33, sec. 4, 1 Stat. 137), to land within the town of Gay Head. The membership of the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., includes those 521 individuals who have been recognized by the Secretary of the Interior as being members of the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., and such Indians of Gay Head ancestry as may be added from time to time by the governing body of the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc.: Provided, That nothing in this section shall prevent the voluntary withdrawal from membership in the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., pursuant to procedures established by the Tribe. The governing body of the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc. is hereby authorized to act on behalf of and bind the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., in all matters related to carrying out this subchapter.


(3) FundThe term “fund” means the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc. Claims Settlement Fund established under section 1771a of this title.


(4) Land or natural resourcesThe term “land or natural resources” means any real property or natural resources or any interest in or right involving any real property or natural resource, including but not limited to, minerals and mineral rights, timber and timber rights, water and water rights, and rights to hunt and fish.


(5) LawsuitThe term “lawsuit” means the action entitled Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, and others versus Town of Gay Head, and others (C.A. No. 74–5826–McN (D. Mass.)).


(6) Private settlement landsThe term “private settlement lands” means approximately 177 acres of privately held land described in paragraph 6 of the Settlement Agreement.


(7) Public settlement landsThe term “public settlement lands” means the lands described in paragraph (4) of the Settlement Agreement.


(8) Settlement landsThe term “settlement lands” means the private settlement lands and the public settlement lands.


(9) SecretaryThe term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior.


(10) Settlement AgreementThe term “Settlement Agreement” means the document entitled “Joint Memorandum of Understanding Concerning Settlement of the Gay Head, Massachusetts, Indian Land Claims,” executed as of November 22, 1983, and renewed thereafter by representatives of the parties to the lawsuit, and as filed with the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.


(11) State implementing actThe term “State implementing act” means legislation enacted by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts conforming to the requirements of this subchapter and the requirements of the Massachusetts Constitution.


(12) TransferThe term “transfer” includes—(A) any sale, grant, lease, allotment, partition, or conveyance,

(B) any transaction the purpose of which is to effect a sale, grant, lease, allotment, partition, or conveyance, or

(C) any event or events that resulted in a change of possession or control of land or natural resources.


(13) West Basin StripThe term “West Basin Strip” means a strip of land along the West Basin which the Wampanoag Tribal Council is authorized to convey, under paragraph (11) of the Settlement Agreement, to the town of Gay Head.


(Pub. L. 100–95, § 8, Aug. 18, 1987, 101 Stat. 708.)


References in TextThe Trade and Intercourse Act of 1790, Act of July 22, 1790 (ch. 33, sec. 4, 1 Stat. 137), referred to in par. (2), is not classified to the Code. See sections 177, 179, 180, 193, 194, 201, 229, 230, 251, 263, and 264 of this title.


