§ 8122. Procedures for complementary access(a) In generalEach instance of complementary access to a location in the United States under the Additional Protocol shall be conducted in accordance with this subchapter.


(b) Notice(1) In generalComplementary access referred to in subsection (a) may occur only upon the issuance of an actual written notice by the United States Government to the owner, operator, occupant, or agent in charge of the location to be subject to complementary access.


(2) Time of notificationThe notice under paragraph (1) shall be submitted to such owner, operator, occupant, or agent as soon as possible after the United States Government has received notification that the IAEA seeks complementary access. Notices may be posted prominently at the location if the United States Government is unable to provide actual written notice to such owner, operator, occupant, or agent.


(3) Content of notice(A) 11 So in original. No subpar. (B) has been enacted. In generalThe notice required by paragraph (1) shall specify—(i) the purpose for the complementary access;

(ii) the basis for the selection of the facility, site, or other location for the complementary access sought;

(iii) the activities that will be carried out during the complementary access;

(iv) the time and date that the complementary access is expected to begin, and the anticipated period covered by the complementary access; and

(v) the names and titles of the inspectors.



(4) Separate notices requiredA separate notice shall be provided each time that complementary access is sought by the IAEA.



(c) CredentialsThe complementary access team of the IAEA and representatives or designees of the United States Government shall display appropriate identifying credentials to the owner, operator, occupant, or agent in charge of the location before gaining entry in connection with complementary access.


(d) Scope(1) In generalExcept as provided in a warrant issued under section 8123 of this title, and subject to the rights of the United States Government under the Additional Protocol to limit complementary access, complementary access to a location pursuant to this chapter may extend to all activities specifically permitted for such locations under Article 6 of the Additional Protocol.


(2) ExceptionUnless required by the Additional Protocol, no inspection under this chapter shall extend to—(A) financial data (other than production data);

(B) sales and marketing data (other than shipment data);

(C) pricing data;

(D) personnel data;

(E) patent data;

(F) data maintained for compliance with environmental or occupational health and safety regulations; or

(G) research data.



(e) Environment, health, safety, and securityIn carrying out their activities, members of the IAEA complementary access team and representatives or designees of the United States Government shall observe applicable environmental, health, safety, and security regulations established at the location subject to complementary access, including those for protection of controlled environments within a facility and for personal safety.


(Pub. L. 109–401, title II, § 222, Dec. 18, 2006, 120 Stat. 2744.)
