§ 6752. Purposes and goals(a) PurposesThe purposes of this part are the following:(1) To provide assistance to States and localities for the implementation and support of a comprehensive system that effectively uses technology in elementary schools and secondary schools to improve student academic achievement.

(2) To encourage the establishment or expansion of initiatives, including initiatives involving public-private partnerships, designed to increase access to technology, particularly in schools served by high-need local educational agencies.

(3) To assist States and localities in the acquisition, development, interconnection, implementation, improvement, and maintenance of an effective educational technology infrastructure in a manner that expands access to technology for students (particularly for disadvantaged students) and teachers.

(4) To promote initiatives that provide school teachers, principals, and administrators with the capacity to integrate technology effectively into curricula and instruction that are aligned with challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards, through such means as high-quality professional development programs.

(5) To enhance the ongoing professional development of teachers, principals, and administrators by providing constant access to training and updated research in teaching and learning through electronic means.

(6) To support the development and utilization of electronic networks and other innovative methods, such as distance learning, of delivering specialized or rigorous academic courses and curricula for students in areas that would not otherwise have access to such courses and curricula, particularly in geographically isolated regions.

(7) To support the rigorous evaluation of programs funded under this part, particularly regarding the impact of such programs on student academic achievement, and ensure that timely information on the results of such evaluations is widely accessible through electronic means.

(8) To support local efforts using technology to promote parent and family involvement in education and communication among students, parents, teachers, principals, and administrators.


(b) Goals(1) Primary goalThe primary goal of this part is to improve student academic achievement through the use of technology in elementary schools and secondary schools.


(2) Additional goalsThe additional goals of this part are the following:(A) To assist every student in crossing the digital divide by ensuring that every student is technologically literate by the time the student finishes the eighth grade, regardless of the student’s race, ethnicity, gender, family income, geographic location, or disability.

(B) To encourage the effective integration of technology resources and systems with teacher training and curriculum development to establish research-based instructional methods that can be widely implemented as best practices by State educational agencies and local educational agencies.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2402, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title II, § 201, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1671.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 2402 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 6702 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


