§ 2026. Termination of authority and participation in Agency
In the event of an amendment to the Statute of the Agency being adopted in accordance with article XVIII–C of the Statute to which the Senate by formal vote shall refuse its advice and consent, upon notification by the Senate to the President of such refusal to advise and consent, all further authority under section 11 So in original. Probably should be “sections”. 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024 of this title, as amended, shall terminate: Provided, however, That the Secretary of State, under such regulations as the President shall promulgate, shall have the necessary authority to complete the prompt and orderly settlement of obligations and commitments to the Agency already incurred and pay salaries, allowances, travel expenses, and other expenses required for a prompt and orderly termination of United States participation in the Agency: And provided further, That the representative and the deputy representative of the United States to the Agency, and such other officers or employees representing the United States in the Agency, under such regulations as the President shall promulgate, shall retain their authority under this chapter for such time as may be necessary to complete the settlement of matters arising out of the United States participation in the Agency.
(Pub. L. 85–177, § 8, Aug. 28, 1957, 71 Stat. 455.)


References in TextArticle XVIII–C of the Statute, referred to in text, provides: “C. Amendments shall come into force for all members when: (i) Approved by the General Conference by a two-thirds majority of those present and voting after consideration of observations submitted by the Board of Governors on each proposed amendment, and (ii) Accepted by two-thirds of all the members in accordance with their respective constitutional processes. Acceptance by a member shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of acceptance with the depositary Government referred to in paragraph C of Article XXI.”.


