§ 7175. Local activities(a) Authorized activitiesEach eligible entity that receives an award under this part may use the award funds to carry out a broad array of before and after school activities (including during summer recess periods) that advance student academic achievement, including—(1) remedial education activities and academic enrichment learning programs, including providing additional assistance to students to allow the students to improve their academic achievement;

(2) mathematics and science education activities;

(3) arts and music education activities;

(4) entrepreneurial education programs;

(5) tutoring services (including those provided by senior citizen volunteers) and mentoring programs;

(6) programs that provide after school activities for limited English proficient students that emphasize language skills and academic achievement;

(7) recreational activities;

(8) telecommunications and technology education programs;

(9) expanded library service hours;

(10) programs that promote parental involvement and family literacy;

(11) programs that provide assistance to students who have been truant, suspended, or expelled to allow the students to improve their academic achievement; and

(12) drug and violence prevention programs, counseling programs, and character education programs.


(b) Principles of effectiveness(1) In generalFor a program or activity developed pursuant to this part to meet the principles of effectiveness, such program or activity shall—(A) be based upon an assessment of objective data regarding the need for before and after school programs (including during summer recess periods) and activities in the schools and communities;

(B) be based upon an established set of performance measures aimed at ensuring the availability of high quality academic enrichment opportunities; and

(C) if appropriate, be based upon scientifically based research that provides evidence that the program or activity will help students meet the State and local student academic achievement standards.


(2) Periodic evaluation(A) In generalThe program or activity shall undergo a periodic evaluation to assess its progress toward achieving its goal of providing high quality opportunities for academic enrichment.


(B) Use of resultsThe results of evaluations under subparagraph (A) shall be—(i) used to refine, improve, and strengthen the program or activity, and to refine the performance measures; and

(ii) made available to the public upon request, with public notice of such availability provided.




(Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4205, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title IV, § 401, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1772.)
