§ 1032b. Application requirements
To be eligible to receive a grant or enter into a contract or cooperative agreement under this subpart, an eligible consortium shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require. Such application shall include the following:(1) A description of the project to be carried out with the grant, including how the project will—(A) develop a long-term partnership focused on effective teaching with modern digital tools and content that substantially connects preservice preparation of teacher candidates with high-need schools; or

(B) transform the way departments, schools, and colleges of education teach classroom technology integration, including the principles of universal design, to teacher candidates.


(2) A demonstration of—(A) the commitment, including the financial commitment, of each of the members of the consortium for the proposed project; and

(B) the support of the leadership of each organization that is a member of the consortium for the proposed project.


(3) A description of how each member of the consortium will participate in the project.

(4) A description of how the State educational agency or local educational agency will incorporate the project into the agency’s technology plan, if such a plan already exists.

(5) A description of how the project will be continued after Federal funds are no longer available under this subpart for the project.

(6) A description of how the project will incorporate—(A) State teacher technology standards; and

(B) State student technology standards.


(7) A plan for the evaluation of the project, which shall include benchmarks to monitor progress toward specific project objectives.

(Pub. L. 89–329, title II, § 233, as added Pub. L. 110–315, title II, § 201(3), Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3157.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 233 of Pub. L. 89–329 was classified to section 1043 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 96–374.


