§ 9812. Definitions
In this part:(1) Children from low-income familiesThe term “children from low-income families” means children described in section 6333(c)(1)(A) of this title.


(2) Eligible recipientThe term “eligible recipient” means an institution of higher education that receives grant funds under this part on behalf of a department of science, technology, engineering, mathematics, or a critical foreign language, or on behalf of a department or school with a competency-based degree program (in science, technology, engineering, mathematics, or a critical foreign language) that includes teacher certification, for use in carrying out activities assisted under this part.


(3) High-need local educational agencyThe term “high-need local educational agency” means a local educational agency or educational service agency—(A)(i) that serves not fewer than 10,000 children from low-income families;

(ii) for which not less than 20 percent of the children served by the agency are children from low-income families; or

(iii) with a total of less than 600 students in average daily attendance at the schools that are served by the agency and all of whose schools are designated with a school locale code of 41, 42, or 43, as determined by the Secretary; and


(B)(i) for which there is a high percentage of teachers providing instruction in academic subject areas or grade levels for which the teachers are not highly qualified; or

(ii) for which there is a high teacher turnover rate or a high percentage of teachers with emergency, provisional, or temporary certification or licensure.



(4) Highly qualifiedThe term “highly qualified” has the meaning given such term in section 7801 of this title and, with respect to special education teachers, in section 1401 of this title.


(5) PartnershipThe term “partnership” means a partnership that—(A) shall include—(i) an eligible recipient;

(ii)(I)(aa) a department within the eligible recipient that provides a program of study in science, technology, engineering, mathematics, or a critical foreign language; and

(bb) a school, department, or program of education within the eligible recipient, or a 2-year institution of higher education that has a teacher preparation offering or a dual enrollment program with the eligible recipient; or


(II) a department or school within the eligible recipient with a competency-based degree program (in science, technology, engineering, mathematics, or a critical foreign language) that includes teacher certification; and


(iii) not less than 1 high-need local educational agency and a public school or a consortium of public schools served by the agency; and


(B) may include a nonprofit organization that has a demonstrated record of providing expertise or support to meet the purposes of this part.


(6) Teaching skillsThe term “teaching skills” means the ability to—(A) increase student achievement and learning and increase a student’s ability to apply knowledge;

(B) effectively convey and explain academic subject matter;

(C) employ strategies grounded in the disciplines of teaching and learning that—(i) are based on scientifically valid research;

(ii) are specific to academic subject matter; and

(iii) focus on the identification of students’ specific learning needs, particularly students with disabilities, students who are limited English proficient, students who are gifted and talented, and students with low literacy levels, and the tailoring of academic instruction to such needs;


(D) conduct ongoing assessment of student learning;

(E) effectively manage a classroom; and

(F) communicate and work with parents and guardians, and involve parents and guardians in their children’s education.


(Pub. L. 110–69, title VI, § 6112, Aug. 9, 2007, 121 Stat. 626.)
