§ 3209. Indian Child Resource and Family Services Centers(a) EstablishmentThe Secretary shall establish within each area office of the Bureau an Indian Child Resource and Family Services Center.


(b) Memorandum of AgreementThe Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement which provides for the staffing of the Centers established under this section.


(c) Center staffingEach Center established under subsection (a) of this section shall be staffed by a multidisciplinary team of personnel with experience and training in prevention, identification, investigation, and treatment of incidents of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect.


(d) Center responsibilities and functionsEach Center established under subsection (a) of this section shall—(1) provide advice, technical assistance, and consultation to Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and inter-tribal consortia upon request;

(2) provide training to appropriate personnel of Indian tribes, tribal organizations, the Bureau and the Service on the identification and investigation of cases of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect and, to the extent practicable, coordinate with institutions of higher education, including tribally controlled community colleges, to offer college-level credit to interested trainees;

(3) develop training materials on the prevention, identification, investigation, and treatment of incidents of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect for distribution to Indian tribes and to tribal organizations;

(4) develop recommendations to assist Federal and tribal personnel to respond to cases of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect; and

(5) develop policies and procedures for each agency office of the Bureau and service unit of the Service within the area which, to the extent feasible, comply with tribal laws pertaining to cases of family violence, child abuse, and child neglect, including any criminal laws, and which provide for maximum cooperation with the enforcement of such laws.


(e) Multidisciplinary team personnelEach multidisciplinary team established under this section shall include, but is not limited to, personnel with a background in—(1) law enforcement,

(2) child protective services,

(3) juvenile counseling and adolescent mental health, and

(4) domestic violence.


(f) Center advisory boardThe Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall establish, for each Indian Child Resource and Family Services Center, an advisory board to advise and assist such Center in carrying out its activities under this chapter. Each advisory board shall consist of 7 members appointed by the Secretary from Indian tribes and human service providers served by an area office of the Bureau. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for travel and other expenses while carrying out the duties of the board. The advisory board shall assist the Center in coordinating programs, identifying training materials, and developing policies and procedures relating to family violence, child abuse, and child neglect.


(g) Application of Indian Self-Determination Act to CentersIndian Child Resource and Family Services Centers established under subsection (a) of this section shall be subject to the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act [25 U.S.C. 450f et seq.]. If a Center is located in an area office of the Bureau which serves more than one Indian tribe, any application to enter into a contract to operate the Center pursuant to such Act must have the consent of each of the other tribes to be served under the contract, except that, in the Juneau Area, only the consent of such tribes or tribal consortia that are engaged in contracting of Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention programs pursuant to such Act shall be required. This section shall not preclude the designation of an existing child resource and family services center operated by a tribe or tribal organization as a Center if all of the tribes to be served by the Center agree to such designation.


(h) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the provisions of this section $3,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997.


(Pub. L. 101–630, title IV, § 410, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4552; Pub. L. 104–16, § 1, June 21, 1995, 109 Stat. 190.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsec. (f), was in the original “this Act” and was translated as reading “this title”, meaning title IV of Pub. L. 101–630, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4544, known as the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act, which is classified principally to this chapter, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3201 of this title and Tables.
The Indian Self-Determination Act, referred to in subsec. (g), is title I of Pub. L. 93–638, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2206, as amended, which is classified principally to part A (§ 450f et seq.) of subchapter II of chapter 14 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 450 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1995—Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 104–16 substituted “1995, 1996, and 1997” for “and 1995”.

Termination of Advisory BoardsAdvisory boards established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a board established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such board is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a board established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See sections 3(2) and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


