§ 7275. Grants to combat the impact of experiencing or witnessing domestic violence on elementary and secondary school children(a) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Domestic violenceThe term “domestic violence” has the meaning given that term in section 3796gg–2 of title 42.


(2) ExpertThe term “expert” means—(A) an expert on domestic violence, sexual assault, and child abuse from the educational, legal, youth, mental health, substance abuse, or victim advocacy field; and

(B) a State or local domestic violence coalition or community-based youth organization.


(3) Witness domestic violence(A) In generalThe term “witness domestic violence” means to witness—(i) an act of domestic violence that constitutes actual or attempted physical assault; or

(ii) a threat or other action that places the victim in fear of domestic violence.


(B) WitnessIn subparagraph (A), the term “witness” means—(i) to directly observe an act, threat, or action described in subparagraph (A), or the aftermath of that act, threat, or action; or

(ii) to be within earshot of an act, threat, or action described in subparagraph (A), or the aftermath of that act, threat, or action.




(b) Grants authorized(1) AuthorityThe Secretary is authorized to award grants to local educational agencies that work with experts to enable the elementary schools and secondary schools served by the local educational agency—(A) to provide training to school administrators, faculty, and staff, with respect to issues concerning children who experience domestic violence in dating relationships or who witness domestic violence, and the impact of the violence on the children;

(B) to provide educational programming for students regarding domestic violence and the impact of experiencing or witnessing domestic violence on children;

(C) to provide support services for students and school personnel to develop and strengthen effective prevention and intervention strategies with respect to issues concerning children who experience domestic violence in dating relationships or who witness domestic violence, and the impact of the violence on the children; and

(D) to develop and implement school system policies regarding appropriate and safe responses to, identification of, and referral procedures for, students who are experiencing or witnessing domestic violence.


(2) Award basisThe Secretary is authorized to award grants under this section—(A) on a competitive basis; and

(B) in a manner that ensures that such grants are equitably distributed among local educational agencies located in rural, urban, and suburban areas.


(3) Policy disseminationThe Secretary shall disseminate to local educational agencies any Department policy guidance regarding the prevention of domestic violence and the impact on children of experiencing or witnessing domestic violence.



(c) Uses of fundsFunds made available to carry out this subpart may be used for one or more of the following purposes:(1) To provide training for elementary school and secondary school administrators, faculty, and staff that addresses issues concerning elementary school and secondary school students who experience domestic violence in dating relationships or who witness domestic violence, and the impact of such violence on those students.

(2) To provide education programs for elementary school and secondary school students that are developmentally appropriate for the students’ grade levels and are designed to meet any unique cultural and language needs of the particular student populations.

(3) To develop and implement elementary school and secondary school system policies regarding—(A) appropriate and safe responses to, identification of, and referral procedures for, students who are experiencing or witnessing domestic violence; and

(B) to develop and implement policies on reporting and referral procedures for those students.


(4) To provide the necessary human resources to respond to the needs of elementary school and secondary school students and personnel who are faced with the issue of domestic violence, such as a resource person who is either on-site or on-call and who is an expert.

(5) To provide media center materials and educational materials to elementary schools and secondary schools that address issues concerning children who experience domestic violence in dating relationships or who witness domestic violence, and the impact of the violence on those children.

(6) To conduct evaluations to assess the impact of programs and policies assisted under this subpart in order to enhance the development of the programs.


(d) ConfidentialityPolicies, programs, training materials, and evaluations developed and implemented under subsection (c) of this section shall address issues of safety and confidentiality for the victim and the victim’s family in a manner consistent with applicable Federal and State laws.


(e) ApplicationTo be eligible for a grant under this section for a fiscal year, a local educational agency, in consultation with an expert, shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require. The application shall include each of the following:(1) A description of the need for funds provided under the grant and the plan for implementation of any of the activities described in subsection (c) of this section.

(2) A description of how the experts will work in consultation and collaboration with the local educational agency.

(3) Measurable objectives for, and expected results from, the use of the funds provided under the grant.

(4) Provisions for appropriate remuneration for collaborating partners.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5571, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1861.)
