§ 9408. Reservations and allotments(a) Reservation for Indian tribes, Alaska Natives, and Native HawaiiansThe Secretary shall reserve 1 percent of the total amount appropriated under section 9404 of this title for each fiscal year, to be allotted to Indian tribes, Regional Corporations, and Native Hawaiian entities, of which—(1) 0.5 percent shall be available to Indian tribes; and

(2) 0.5 percent shall be available to Regional Corporations and Native Hawaiian entities.


(b) AllotmentsFrom the funds appropriated under this chapter for each fiscal year that are not reserved under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall allot to each State the sum of—(1) an amount that bears the same ratio to 50 percent of such funds as the number of children 4 years of age and younger in the State bears to the number of such children in all States; and

(2) an amount that bears the same ratio to 50 percent of such funds as the number of children 4 years of age and younger living in families with incomes below the poverty line in the State bears to the number of such children in all States.


(c) Minimum allotmentNo State shall receive an allotment under subsection (b) of this section for a fiscal year in an amount that is less than .40 percent of the total amount appropriated for the fiscal year under this chapter.


(d) Availability of fundsAny portion of the allotment to a State that is not expended for activities under this chapter in the fiscal year for which the allotment is made shall remain available to the State for two additional years, after which any unexpended funds shall be returned to the Secretary. The Secretary shall use the returned funds to carry out a discretionary grant program for research-based early learning demonstration projects.


(e) DataThe Secretary shall make allotments under this chapter on the basis of the most recent data available to the Secretary.


(Pub. L. 106–554, § 1(a)(1) [title VIII, § 809], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A–84.)
