“Sec. 208. [Authority to Conduct Self-Employment Assistance Programs] (a)(1) At the option of a State, for any weeks of unemployment beginning after the date of enactment of this section [Feb. 22, 2012], the State agency of the State may establish a self-employment assistance program, as described in subsection (b), to provide for the payment of extended compensation as self-employment assistance allowances to individuals who would otherwise satisfy the eligibility criteria under this title.“(2) Subject to paragraph (3), the self-employment assistance allowance described in paragraph (1) shall be paid to an eligible individual from such individual’s extended compensation account, as described in section 202(b), and the amount in such account shall be reduced accordingly.

“(3)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), for purposes of self-employment assistance programs established under this section and section 4001(j) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 [Pub. L. 110–252, set out above], an individual shall be provided with self-employment assistance allowances under such programs for a total of not greater than 26 weeks (referred to in this section as the ‘combined eligibility limit’).

“(B) For purposes of an individual who is participating in a self-employment assistance program established under this section and has not reached the combined eligibility limit as of the date on which such individual exhausts all rights to extended compensation under this title, the individual shall be eligible to receive self-employment assistance allowances under a self-employment assistance program established under section 4001(j) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 [Pub. L. 110–252, set out above], until such individual has reached the combined eligibility limit, provided that the individual otherwise satisfies the eligibility criteria described under title IV of such Act [set out above].


“(b) For the purposes of this section, the term ‘self-employment assistance program’ means a program as defined under section 3306(t) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, except as follows:“(1) all references to ‘regular unemployment compensation under the State law’ shall be deemed to refer instead to ‘extended compensation under title II of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970’ [this note];

“(2) paragraph (3)(B) shall not apply;

“(3) clause (i) of paragraph (3)(C) shall be deemed to state as follows:“ ‘(i) include any entrepreneurial training that the State or non-profit organizations may provide in coordination with programs of training offered by the Small Business Administration, which may include business counseling, mentorship for participants, access to small business development resources, and technical assistance; and’;


“(4) the reference to ‘5 percent’ in paragraph (4) shall be deemed to refer instead to ‘1 percent’; and

“(5) paragraph (5) shall not apply.


“(c) In the case of an individual who is eligible to receive extended compensation under this title, such individual shall not receive self-employment assistance allowances under this section unless the State agency has a reasonable expectation that such individual will be entitled to at least 13 times the individual’s average weekly benefit amount of extended compensation and emergency unemployment compensation.

“(d)(1) An individual who is participating in a self-employment assistance program established under this section may elect to discontinue participation in such program at any time.

“(2) For purposes of an individual whose participation in a self-employment assistance program established under this section is terminated pursuant to subsection (a)(3) or who has discontinued participation in such program, if the individual continues to satisfy the eligibility requirements for extended compensation under this title, the individual shall receive extended compensation payments with respect to subsequent weeks of unemployment, to the extent that amounts remain in the account established for such individual under section 202(b).”


