“Section 1. (a) Subject to subsection (d), all right, title, and interest of the United States in the lands described in subsection (b) (including all improvements thereon and appurtenances thereto) are declared to be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the respective bands of the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah, as provided in subsection (b), and are declared to be part of the reservation of the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah.

“(b) The lands subject to this section are parcels 1 through 5 of the lands depicted on the maps contained in the draft document entitled ‘Proposed Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah Reservation Plan’, dated January 24, 1982, and published by the United States Department of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs. Upon enactment of this Act [Feb. 17, 1984], the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register the legal description of the lands so depicted. The Secretary is authorized to correct any technical errors in the descriptions of the subject lands. Such lands shall be held as follows:“(1) To be held in trust for the Kanosh Band of the Paiute Tribe of Utah: Parcel numbered 2, figure 5, page 95, containing approximately five hundred and sixty acres; parcel numbered 3, figure 6, page 99, containing approximately five hundred and two acres.

“(2) To be held in trust for the Koosharem Band of the Paiute Tribe of Utah: Parcel numbered 4, figure 7, page 105, containing approximately five hundred and twenty acres; parcel numbered 5, figure 8, page 111, containing approximately seven hundred and fifteen acres.

“(3) To be held in trust for the Cedar Band of the Paiute Tribe of Utah: That portion of parcel numbered 1, figure 4, page 85, containing approximately two thousand forty-four acres.

“(4) To be held in trust for the Indian Peaks Band of the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah: That portion of parcel numbered 1, figure 4, page 85, containing approximately four hundred and twenty-four acres.


“(c) Nothing in this section shall deprive any person of any existing legal right-of-way, mining claim, grazing permit, water right, or other right or interest which such person may have in the lands described in subsection (b).

“(d) Pursuant to the Act of June 14, 1934 (48 Stat. 985) [probably means section 5 of act June 18, 1934, 25 U.S.C. 465], the Secretary shall acquire, to the extent available, easements to and water rights for the lands described in subsection (b) as necessary for their use.

“(e) The Secretary shall consult with the town council of Joseph, Utah, and other appropriate local governmental entities prior to permitting the introduction of any point source of contamination pursuant to any proposed development on parcel numbered 4 as described in subsection (b)(2). The Secretary shall require a minimum of one thousand five hundred feet distance be maintained from the town well of the town of Joseph and any such point source of contamination and may, if he determines it is necessary to prevent contamination of said well, require the installation of an appropriate waste water disposal system as part of any proposed development on parcel 4.

“(f) Upon the effective date of this Act [Feb. 17, 1984], all valid leases, permits, rights-of-way, or other land use rights or authorizations, except mining claims, existing on the date of enactment of this Act [Feb. 17, 1984] in the lands described in subsection (b), including the right to receive compensation for use of the lands, shall cease to be the responsibility of, or enure to the benefit of, the United States, and shall become the responsibility of the Paiute Indian Tribe which shall succeed to the interests of the United States and shall continue to maintain them under the same terms and conditions as they were maintained by the United States.

“(g) All improvements on the lands described in subsection (b) in existence on the effective date of the Act [Feb. 17, 1984], under the authority of the land use rights or authorizations described in subsection (c), shall remain in the same status as to ownership and right of use as existed prior to the date of enactment of this Act [Feb. 17, 1984].

“(h) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as terminating any valid mining claim existing on the date of enactment of this Act [Feb. 17, 1984] on the lands described in subsection (b).

“(i) The mining claims described in subsection (c) shall carry all the rights incident to mining claims, including the rights of ingress and egress over the land described in subsection (b). Such mining claims shall carry the right to occupy and use so much of the surface of the land within their boundaries as is required for all purposes reasonably necessary to mine and remove the minerals, including the removal of timber for mining purposes. Such mining claims shall terminate when they are determined invalid under subsection (j) or are abandoned.

“(j) As soon as possible after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall determine the validity of the mining claims described in subsection (h) as of the date of enactment of this Act [Feb. 17, 1984]. Those mining claims which the Secretary determines to be valid shall be maintained thereafter in compliance with the mining laws of the United States but the holders of such claims shall not be entitled to a patent.

“(k) Nothing in this Act shall prevent the Paiute Indian Tribe from negotiating the accommodation of land use rights or authorizations described in this section through any method acceptable to the parties.

