§ 3244. Actions to combat international nuclear terrorism(a) Actions to be taken by PresidentThe Congress hereby directs the President—(1) to seek universal adherence to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material;

(2) to—(A) conduct a review, enlisting the participation of all relevant departments and agencies of the Government, to determine whether the recommendations on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material published by the International Atomic Energy Agency are adequate to deter theft, sabotage, and the use of nuclear facilities and materials in acts of international terrorism, and

(B) transmit the results of this review to the Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency;


(3) to take, in concert with United States allies and other countries, such steps as may be necessary—(A) to keep to a minimum the amount of weapons-grade nuclear material in international transit, and

(B) to ensure that when any such material is transported internationally, it is under the most effective means for adequately protecting it from acts or attempted acts of sabotage or theft by terrorist groups or nations; and


(4) to seek agreement in the United Nations Security Council to establish—(A) an effective regime of international sanctions against any nation or subnational group which conducts or sponsors acts of international nuclear terrorism, and

(B) measures for coordinating responses to all acts of international nuclear terrorism, including measures for the recovery of stolen nuclear material and the clean-up of nuclear releases.



(b) Reports to CongressThe President shall report to the Congress annually, in the reports required by section 3281 of this title, on the progress made during the preceding year in achieving the objectives described in this section.


(Pub. L. 99–399, title VI, § 601, Aug. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 874.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986, and not as part of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978 which comprises this chapter.

Nuclear Terrorism PreventionPub. L. 110–181, div. C, title XXXI, subtitle D, Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 586, provided that:
“SEC. 3131. DEFINITIONS.“In this subtitle:“(1) The term ‘Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material’ means the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, signed at New York and Vienna March 3, 1980.

“(2) The term ‘formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material’ means uranium–235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the U–235 isotope), uranium–233, or plutonium in any combination in a total quantity of 5,000 grams or more computed by the formula, grams = (grams contained U–235) + 2.5 (grams U–233 + grams plutonium), as set forth in the definitions of ‘formula quantity’ and ‘strategic special nuclear material’ in section 73.2 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations.

“(3) The term ‘Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty’ means the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, done at Washington, London, and Moscow July 1, 1968, and entered into force March 5, 1970 (21 UST 483).

“(4) The term ‘nuclear weapon’ means any device utilizing atomic energy, exclusive of the means for transporting or propelling the device (where such means is a separable and divisible part of the device), the principal purpose of which is for use as, or for the development of, a weapon, a weapon prototype, or a weapon test device.

