§ 107d–3. Vending machine income(a) Accrual to blind licensee and alternatively to State agency; ceiling on amount for individual licenseeIn accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, vending machine income obtained from the operation of vending machines on Federal property shall accrue (1) to the blind licensee operating a vending facility on such property, or (2) in the event there is no blind licensee operating such facility on such property, to the State agency in whose State the Federal property is located, for the uses designated in subsection (c) of this section, except that with respect to income which accrues under clause (1) of this subsection, the Commissioner may prescribe regulations imposing a ceiling on income from such vending machines for an individual blind licensee. In the event such a ceiling is imposed, no blind licensee shall receive less vending machine income under such ceiling than he was receiving on January 1, 1974. No limitation shall be imposed on income from vending machines, combined to create a vending facility, which are maintained, serviced, or operated by a blind licensee. Any amounts received by a blind licensee that are in excess of the amount permitted to accrue to him under any ceiling imposed by the Commissioner shall be disbursed to the appropriate State agency under clause (2) of this subsection and shall be used by such agency in accordance with subsection (c) of this section.


(b) Direct competition between vending machine and vending facility; proportion of accrued income from such vending machines for individual licensee(1) After January 1, 1975, 100 per centum of all vending machine income from vending machines on Federal property which are in direct competition with a blind vending facility shall accrue as specified in subsection (a) of this section. “Direct competition” as used in this section means the existence of any vending machines or facilities operated on the same premises as a blind vending facility except that vending machines or facilities operated in areas serving employees the majority of whom normally do not have direct access to the blind vending facility shall not be considered in direct competition with the blind vending facility. After January 1, 1975, 50 per centum of all vending machine income from vending machines on Federal property which are not in direct competition with a blind vending facility shall accrue as specified in subsection (a) of this section, except that with respect to Federal property at which at least 50 per centum of the total hours worked on the premises occurs during periods other than normal working hours, 30 per centum of such income shall so accrue.

(2) The head of each department, agency, and instrumentality of the United States shall insure compliance with this section with respect to buildings, installations, and facilities under his control, and shall be responsible for collection of, and accounting for, such vending machine income.


(c) Disposal of accrued vending machine income by State licensing agencyAll vending machine income which accrues to a State licensing agency pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be used to establish retirement or pension plans, for health insurance contributions, and for provision of paid sick leave and vacation time for blind licensees in such State, subject to a vote of blind licensees as provided under section 107b(3)(E) of this title. Any vending machine income remaining after application of the first sentence of this subsection shall be used for the purposes specified in sections 107b(3)(A), (B), (C), and (D) of this title, and any assessment charged to blind licensees by a State licensing agency shall be reduced pro rata in an amount equal to the total of such remaining vending machine income.


(d) Income from vending machines in certain locations exceptedSubsections (a) and (b)(1) of this section shall not apply to income from vending machines within retail sales outlets under the control of exchange or ships’ stores systems authorized by title 10, or to income from vending machines operated by the Veterans Canteen Service, or to income from vending machines not in direct competition with a blind vending facility at individual locations, installations, or facilities on Federal property the total of which at such individual locations, installations, or facilities does not exceed $3,000 annually.


(e) Regulations establishing priority for operation of cafeteriasThe Secretary, through the Commissioner, shall prescribe regulations to establish a priority for the operation of cafeterias on Federal property by blind licensees when he determines, on an individual basis and after consultation with the head of the appropriate installation, that such operation can be provided at a reasonable cost with food of a high quality comparable to that currently provided to employees, whether by contract or otherwise.


(f) Existing arrangements more favorable to blind licensees unaffectedThis section shall not operate to preclude preexisting or future arrangements, or regulations of departments, agencies, or instrumentalities of the United States, under which blind licensees (1) receive a greater percentage or amount of vending machine income than that specified in subsection (b)(1) of this section, or (2) receive vending machine income from individual locations, installations, or facilities on Federal property the total of which at such individual locations, installations, or facilities does not exceed $3,000 annually.


(g) Regulations for complianceThe Secretary shall take such action and promulgate such regulations as he deems necessary to assure compliance with this section.


(June 20, 1936, ch. 638, § 7, as added Pub. L. 93–516, title II, § 206, Dec. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 1627; Pub. L. 93–651, title II, § 206, Nov. 21, 1974, 89 Stat. 2–12.)

Codification
The content of Pub. L. 93–516, including provisions of section 206 thereof which enacted this section, were originally contained in H.R. 14225, 93rd Congress, Second Session, which was pocket-vetoed during the 31-day intrasession adjournment of the 93rd Congress for the Congressional elections in November, 1974.
Pursuant to an order of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia (Kennedy v. Jones, D.C.D.C. 1976, 412 F.Supp. 353) H.R. 14225 was deemed to have become law without the approval of the President on Nov. 21, 1974, and was given the designation Pub. L. 93–651. Therefore, for purposes of codification, this section should be deemed to have been enacted by Pub. L. 93–651, title II, § 206, Nov. 21, 1974, 89 Stat. 2–12, in exactly the same manner as it was enacted by Pub. L. 93–516.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 7 of act June 20, 1936, was classified to section 107e–1 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 93–516, § 205.


