“SEC. 203. CONTINUED APPLICATION OF UNITED STATES LAW.“(a) Continued Application.—“(1) In general.—Notwithstanding any change in the exercise of sovereignty over Macau, and subject to subsections (b) and (c), the laws of the United States shall continue to apply with respect to Macau in the same manner as the laws of the United States were applied with respect to Macau before December 20, 1999, unless otherwise expressly provided by law or by Executive order issued pursuant to paragraph (2).

“(2) Exception.—Whenever the President determines that Macau is not sufficiently autonomous to justify treatment under a particular law of the United States, or any provision thereof, different from that accorded the People’s Republic of China, the President may issue an Executive order suspending the application of paragraph (1) to such law or provision of law. The President shall promptly notify the Committee on International Relations [now Committee on Foreign Affairs] of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate concerning any such determination and shall publish the Executive order in the Federal Register.


“(b) Export Controls.—“(1) In general.—The export control laws, regulations, and practices of the United States shall apply to Macau in the same manner and to the same extent that such laws, regulations, and practices apply to the People’s Republic of China, and in no case shall such laws, regulations, and practices be applied less restrictively to exports to Macau than to exports to the People’s Republic of China.

“(2) Rule of construction.—Paragraph (1) shall not be construed as prohibiting the provision of export control assistance to Macau.


“(c) International Agreements.—“(1) In general.—Subject to subsection (b) and paragraph (2), for all purposes, including actions in any court of the United States, Congress approves of the continuation in force after December 20, 1999, of all treaties and other international agreements, including multilateral conventions, entered into before such date between the United States and Macau, or entered into force before such date between the United States and the Republic of Portugal and applied to Macau, unless or until terminated in accordance with law.

“(2) Exception.—If, in carrying out this subsection, the President determines that Macau is not legally competent to carry out its obligations under any such treaty or other international agreement, or that the continuation of Macau’s obligations or rights under any such treaty or other international agreement is not appropriate under the circumstances, the President shall take appropriate action to modify or terminate such treaty or other international agreement. The President shall promptly notify the Committee on International Relations [now Committee on Foreign Affairs] of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate concerning such determination.


