§ 80a. Display of contributions of Armed Forces(a) Study center; historical collectionsThe Smithsonian Institution shall commemorate and display the contributions made by the military forces of the Nation toward creating, developing, and maintaining a free, peaceful, and independent society and culture in the United States of America. The valor and sacrificial service of the men and women of the Armed Forces shall be portrayed as an inspiration to the present and future generations of America. The demands placed upon the full energies of our people, the hardships endured, and the sacrifice demanded in our constant search for world peace shall be clearly demonstrated. The extensive peacetime contributions the Armed Forces have made to the advance of human knowledge in science, nuclear energy, polar and space exploration, electronics, engineering, aeronautics, and medicine shall be graphically described. The Smithsonian Institution shall interpret through dramatic display significant current problems affecting the Nation’s security. It shall be equipped with a study center for scholarly research into the meaning of war, its effect on civilization, and the role of the Armed Forces in maintaining a just and lasting peace by providing a powerful deterrent to war. In fulfilling its purposes, the Smithsonian Institution shall collect, preserve, and exhibit military objects of historical interest and significance.


(b) National Air and Space Museum provisions unaffectedThe provisions of this subchapter in no way rescind subchapter VII of this chapter, which established the National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, or any other authority of the Smithsonian Institution.


(Pub. L. 87–186, § 2, Aug. 30, 1961, 75 Stat. 414; Pub. L. 89–509, pt. I, § 2, July 19, 1966, 80 Stat. 310.)


Change of Name
“National Air and Space Museum” substituted for “National Air Museum” in subsec. (b) pursuant to section 2 of Pub. L. 89–509, which is classified to section 77 of this title.


