§ 262g–3. International negotiations on future replenishments of international financial institutions; consultation with appropriate Members of Congress
The Secretary of the Treasury or his designee shall consult with the Chairman and the Ranking Minority Member of—(1) the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the appropriate subcommittee of each such committee, and

(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the appropriate subcommittee of each such committee,


for the purpose of discussing the position of the executive branch and the views of the Congress with respect to any international negotiations being held to consider future replenishments or capital expansions of any multilateral development bank which may involve an increased contribution or subscription by the United States. Such consultation shall be made (A) not later than 30 days before the initiation of such international negotiations, (B) during the period in which such negotiations are being held, in a frequent and timely manner, and (C) before a session of such negotiations is held at which the United States representatives may agree to such a replenishment or capital expansion.
(Pub. L. 95–118, title XII, § 1201, as added Pub. L. 97–35, title XIII, § 1361(b), Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 746.)


Change of Name
Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives by section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress. Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives abolished and replaced by Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred from Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.

Effective DateSection effective Aug. 13, 1981, see section 1372 of Pub. L. 97–35, set out as a note under section 290i of this title.


