§ 290h–3. Functions of Foundation(a) Types of programs; project limitations; dissemination of project insights(1) In order to carry out the purposes set forth in section 290h–2 of this title, the Foundation may make grants, loans, and loan guarantees to any African private or public group (including public international organizations), association, or other entity engaged in peaceful activities for—(A) the fostering of local development institutions and the support of development efforts initiated by communities themselves;

(B) the development of self-evaluation techniques by participants in projects supported under this section, for the purpose of transferring experience gained in such projects to similar development activities;

(C) development research by Africans and the transfer of development resources, expertise, and knowledge within Africa;

(D) the procurement of such technical or other assistance as is deemed appropriate by the recipient of such grant, loan, or guarantee, to carry out the purposes of this subchapter; and

(E) other projects that would carry out the purposes set forth in section 290h–2 of this title.


(2) The total amount of grants, loans, and loan guarantees that may be made under this section for a project may not exceed $250,000.

(3) The Foundation may disseminate to the American public and to United States and multilateral development institutions insights gained from African development projects assisted under this subchapter.


(b) Community project priorities; disbursement of funds by recipients to other African entitiesIn making grants, loans, and loan guarantees under subsection (a) of this section, the Foundation shall give priority to projects which community groups undertake to foster their own development and in the initiation, design, implementation, and evaluation of which there is the maximum feasible participation of the poor. Where appropriate and in keeping with the purposes of this subchapter, the Foundation may make such grants, loans, and loan guarantees to African entities which are representative and knowledgeable of, and sensitive to, the needs and aspirations of the poor and which would disburse funds acquired under such grants, loans, and loan guarantees to other African entities to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.


(Pub. L. 96–533, title V, § 505, Dec. 16, 1980, 94 Stat. 3152; Pub. L. 100–461, title II, § 201, Oct. 1, 1988, 102 Stat. 2268–13.)

Amendments1988—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 100–461 inserted “(including public international organizations)” after “public group”.


