§ 54AA. Build America bonds(a) In generalIf a taxpayer holds a build America bond on one or more interest payment dates of the bond during any taxable year, there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this chapter for the taxable year an amount equal to the sum of the credits determined under subsection (b) with respect to such dates.


(b) Amount of creditThe amount of the credit determined under this subsection with respect to any interest payment date for a build America bond is 35 percent of the amount of interest payable by the issuer with respect to such date.


(c) Limitation based on amount of tax(1) In generalThe credit allowed under subsection (a) for any taxable year shall not exceed the excess of—(A) the sum of the regular tax liability (as defined in section 26(b)) plus the tax imposed by section 55, over

(B) the sum of the credits allowable under this part (other than subpart C and this subpart).


(2) Carryover of unused creditIf the credit allowable under subsection (a) exceeds the limitation imposed by paragraph (1) for such taxable year, such excess shall be carried to the succeeding taxable year and added to the credit allowable under subsection (a) for such taxable year (determined before the application of paragraph (1) for such succeeding taxable year).



(d) Build America bond(1) In generalFor purposes of this section, the term “build America bond” means any obligation (other than a private activity bond) if—(A) the interest on such obligation would (but for this section) be excludable from gross income under section 103,

(B) such obligation is issued before January 1, 2011, and

(C) the issuer makes an irrevocable election to have this section apply.


(2) Applicable rulesFor purposes of applying paragraph (1)—(A) for purposes of section 149(b), a build America bond shall not be treated as federally guaranteed by reason of the credit allowed under subsection (a) or section 6431,

(B) for purposes of section 148, the yield on a build America bond shall be determined without regard to the credit allowed under subsection (a), and

(C) a bond shall not be treated as a build America bond if the issue price has more than a de minimis amount (determined under rules similar to the rules of section 1273(a)(3)) of premium over the stated principal amount of the bond.



(e) Interest payment dateFor purposes of this section, the term “interest payment date” means any date on which the holder of record of the build America bond is entitled to a payment of interest under such bond.


(f) Special rules(1) Interest on build America bonds includible in gross income for Federal income tax purposesFor purposes of this title, interest on any build America bond shall be includible in gross income.


(2) Application of certain rulesRules similar to the rules of subsections (f), (g), (h), and (i) of section 54A shall apply for purposes of the credit allowed under subsection (a).



(g) Special rule for qualified bonds issued before 2011In the case of a qualified bond issued before January 1, 2011—(1) Issuer allowed refundable creditIn lieu of any credit allowed under this section with respect to such bond, the issuer of such bond shall be allowed a credit as provided in section 6431.


(2) Qualified bondFor purposes of this subsection, the term “qualified bond” means any build America bond issued as part of an issue if—(A) 100 percent of the excess of—(i) the available project proceeds (as defined in section 54A) of such issue, over

(ii) the amounts in a reasonably required reserve (within the meaning of section 150(a)(3)) with respect to such issue,


are to be used for capital expenditures, and

(B) the issuer makes an irrevocable election to have this subsection apply.



(h) RegulationsThe Secretary may prescribe such regulations and other guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out this section and section 6431.


(Added Pub. L. 111–5, div. B, title I, § 1531(a), Feb. 17, 2009, 123 Stat. 358.)

Effective DateSection applicable to obligations issued after Feb. 17, 2009, see section 1531(e) of Pub. L. 111–5, set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under section 54 of this title.

Transitional Coordination With State LawPub. L. 111–5, div. B, title I, § 1531(d), Feb. 17, 2009, 123 Stat. 360, provided that: “Except as otherwise provided by a State after the date of the enactment of this Act [Feb. 17, 2009], the interest on any build America bond (as defined in section 54AA of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as added by this section) and the amount of any credit determined under such section with respect to such bond shall be treated for purposes of the income tax laws of such State as being exempt from Federal income tax.”



