§ 7104. Prevention of trafficking(a) Economic alternatives to prevent and deter traffickingThe President shall establish and carry out international initiatives to enhance economic opportunity for potential victims of trafficking as a method to deter trafficking. Such initiatives may include—(1) microcredit lending programs, training in business development, skills training, and job counseling;

(2) programs to promote women’s participation in economic decisionmaking;

(3) programs to keep children, especially girls, in elementary and secondary schools, and to educate persons who have been victims of trafficking;

(4) development of educational curricula regarding the dangers of trafficking; and

(5) grants to nongovernmental organizations to accelerate and advance the political, economic, social, and educational roles and capacities of women in their countries.


(b) Public awareness and informationThe President, acting through the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of State, shall establish and carry out programs to increase public awareness, particularly among potential victims of trafficking, of the dangers of trafficking and the protections that are available for victims of trafficking.


(c) Border interdictionThe President shall establish and carry out programs of border interdiction outside the United States. Such programs shall include providing grants to foreign nongovernmental organizations that provide for transit shelters operating at key border crossings and that help train survivors of trafficking in persons to educate and train border guards and officials, and other local law enforcement officials, to identify traffickers and victims of severe forms of trafficking, and the appropriate manner in which to treat such victims. Such programs shall also include, to the extent appropriate, monitoring by such survivors of trafficking in persons of the implementation of border interdiction programs, including helping in the identification of such victims to stop the cross-border transit of victims. The President shall ensure that any program established under this subsection provides the opportunity for any trafficking victim who is freed to return to his or her previous residence if the victim so chooses.


(d) International mediaThe President shall establish and carry out programs that support the production of television and radio programs, including documentaries, to inform vulnerable populations overseas of the dangers of trafficking, and to increase awareness of the public in countries of destination regarding the slave-like practices and other human rights abuses involved in trafficking, including fostering linkages between individuals working in the media in different countries to determine the best methods for informing such populations through such media.


(e) Combating international sex tourism(1) Development and dissemination of materialsThe President, pursuant to such regulations as may be prescribed, shall ensure that materials are developed and disseminated to alert travelers that sex tourism (as described in subsections (b) through (f) of section 2423 of title 18) is illegal, will be prosecuted, and presents dangers to those involved. Such materials shall be disseminated to individuals traveling to foreign destinations where the President determines that sex tourism is significant.


(2) Monitoring of complianceThe President shall monitor compliance with the requirements of paragraph (1).


(3) Feasibility reportNot later than 180 days after December 19, 2003, the President shall transmit to the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Senate a report that describes the feasibility of such United States Government materials being disseminated through public-private partnerships to individuals traveling to foreign destinations.



(f) Consultation requirementThe President shall consult with appropriate nongovernmental organizations with respect to the establishment and conduct of initiatives and programs described in subsections (a) through (e) of this section.


(g) Termination of certain grants, contracts and cooperative agreementsThe President shall ensure that any grant, contract, or cooperative agreement provided or entered into by a Federal department or agency under which funds are to be provided to a private entity, in whole or in part, shall include a condition that authorizes the department or agency to terminate the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement, or take any of the other remedial actions authorized under section 7104b(c) of this title, without penalty, if the grantee or any subgrantee, or the contractor or any subcontractor, engages in, or uses labor recruiters, brokers, or other agents who engage in—(i) severe forms of trafficking in persons;

(ii) the procurement of a commercial sex act during the period of time that the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement is in effect;

(iii) the use of forced labor in the performance of the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement; or

(iv) acts that directly support or advance trafficking in persons, including the following acts:(I) Destroying, concealing, removing, confiscating, or otherwise denying an employee access to that employee’s identity or immigration documents.

(II) Failing to provide return transportation or pay for return transportation costs to an employee from a country outside the United States to the country from which the employee was recruited upon the end of employment if requested by the employee, unless—(aa) exempted from the requirement to provide or pay for such return transportation by the Federal department or agency providing or entering into the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement; or

(bb) the employee is a victim of human trafficking seeking victim services or legal redress in the country of employment or a witness in a human trafficking enforcement action.


(III) Soliciting a person for the purpose of employment, or offering employment, by means of materially false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises regarding that employment.

(IV) Charging recruited employees unreasonable placement or recruitment fees, such as fees equal to or greater than the employee’s monthly salary, or recruitment fees that violate the laws of the country from which an employee is recruited.

(V) Providing or arranging housing that fails to meet the host country housing and safety standards.



(h) Prevention of trafficking in conjunction with post-conflict and humanitarian emergency assistanceThe United States Agency for International Development, the Department of State, and the Department of Defense shall incorporate anti-trafficking and protection measures for vulnerable populations, particularly women and children, into their post-conflict and humanitarian emergency assistance and program activities.


(i) Additional measures to prevent and deter traffickingThe President shall establish and carry out programs to prevent and deter trafficking in persons, including—(1) technical assistance and other support to improve the capacity of foreign governments to investigate, identify, and carry out inspections of private entities, including labor recruitment centers, at which trafficking victims may be exploited, particularly exploitation involving forced and child labor;

(2) technical assistance and other support for foreign governments and nongovernmental organizations to provide immigrant populations with information, in the native languages of the major immigrant groups of such populations, regarding the rights of such populations in the foreign country and local in-country nongovernmental organization-operated hotlines;

(3) technical assistance to provide legal frameworks and other programs to foreign governments and nongovernmental organizations to ensure that—(A) foreign migrant workers are provided the same protection as nationals of the foreign country;

(B) labor recruitment firms are regulated; and

(C) workers providing domestic services in households are provided protection under labor rights laws; and


(4) assistance to foreign governments to register vulnerable populations as citizens or nationals of the country to reduce the ability of traffickers to exploit such populations.


(j) Prevention of child trafficking through child marriageThe Secretary of State shall establish and implement a multi-year, multi-sectoral strategy—(1) to prevent child marriage;

(2) to promote the empowerment of girls at risk of child marriage in developing countries;

(3) that should address the unique needs, vulnerabilities, and potential of girls younger than 18 years of age in developing countries;

(4) that targets areas in developing countries with high prevalence of child marriage; and

(5) that includes diplomatic and programmatic initiatives.


(Pub. L. 106–386, div. A, § 106, Oct. 28, 2000, 114 Stat. 1474; Pub. L. 108–193, § 3, Dec. 19, 2003, 117 Stat. 2875; Pub. L. 109–164, title I, § 101(a), title II, § 201(b), Jan. 10, 2006, 119 Stat. 3560, 3569; Pub. L. 110–457, title I, § 103(a), Dec. 23, 2008, 122 Stat. 5046; Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title XVII, § 1702, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2093; Pub. L. 113–4, title XII, § 1207(a), Mar. 7, 2013, 127 Stat. 141.)

Amendments2013—Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 112–239 substituted “or take any of the other remedial actions authorized under section 7104b(c) of this title, without penalty, if the grantee or any subgrantee, or the contractor or any subcontractor, engages in, or uses labor recruiters, brokers, or other agents who engage in—” and cls. (i) to (iv) for “without penalty, if the grantee or any subgrantee, or the contractor or any subcontractor (i) engages in severe forms of trafficking in persons or has procured a commercial sex act during the period of time that the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement is in effect, or (ii) uses forced labor in the performance of the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement.”
Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 113–4 added subsec. (j).
2008—Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 110–457 added subsec. (i).
2006—Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 109–164, § 201(b), struck out designation and heading of par. (1) before “The President shall”, “described in paragraph (2)” after “under which funds”, and heading and text of par. (2). Text of par. (2) read as follows: “Funds referred to in paragraph (1) are funds made available to carry out any program, project, or activity abroad funded under major functional budget category 150 (relating to international affairs).”
Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 109–164, § 101(a), added subsec. (h).
2003—Subsecs. (c) to (f). Pub. L. 108–193, § 3(a), added subsecs. (c) to (e), redesignated former subsec. (c) as (f), and in subsec. (f) substituted “initiatives and programs described in subsections (a) through (e)” for “initiatives described in subsections (a) and (b)”.
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 108–193, § 3(b), added subsec. (g).


Change of Name
Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.

Effective Date of 2013 AmendmentRequirements of amendment by Pub. L. 112–239 applicable to grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements entered into on or after the date that is 270 days after Jan. 2, 2013, and to task and delivery orders awarded on or after Jan. 2, 2013, pursuant to contracts entered before, on, or after such date, see section 7104d(c)(1)(B) of this title.


Delegation of Functions
For delegation of functions of President under this section, see section 5 of Ex. Ord. No. 13257, Feb. 13, 2002, 67 F.R. 7259, as amended, set out as a note under section 7103 of this title.


