§ 1778c. Settlement funds(a) Establishment of tribal and allottees settlement trust funds accounts(1) In generalThere are established in the Treasury of the United States three settlement trust fund accounts to be known as the “Torres-Martinez Settlement Trust Funds Account”, the “Torres-Martinez Allottees Settlement Account I”, and the “Torres-Martinez Allottees Settlement Account II”, respectively.


(2) AvailabilityAmounts held in the Torres-Martinez Settlement Trust Funds Account, the Torres-Martinez Allottees Settlement Account I, and the Torres-Martinez Allottees Settlement Account II shall be available to the Secretary for distribution to the Tribe and affected allottees in accordance with subsection (c) of this section.



(b) Contributions to the settlement trust funds(1) In generalAmounts paid to the Secretary for deposit into the trust fund accounts established by subsection (a) of this section shall be allocated among and deposited in the trust accounts in the amounts determined by the tribal-allottee allocation provisions of the Settlement Agreement.


(2) Cash payments by Coachella Valley Water DistrictWithin the time, in the manner, and upon the conditions specified in the Settlement Agreement, the Coachella Valley Water District shall pay the sum of $337,908.41 to the United States for the benefit of the Tribe and any affected allottees.


(3) Cash payments by Imperial Irrigation DistrictWithin the time, in the manner, and upon the conditions specified in the Settlement Agreement, the Imperial Irrigation District shall pay the sum of $3,670,694.33 to the United States for the benefit of the Tribe and any affected allottees.


(4) Cash payments by the United StatesWithin the time and upon the conditions specified in the Settlement Agreement, the United States shall pay into the three separate tribal and allottee trust fund accounts the total sum of $10,200,000, of which sum—(A) $4,200,000 shall be provided from moneys appropriated by Congress under section 1304 of title 31, the conditions of which are deemed to have been met, including those of section 2414 of title 28; and

(B) $6,000,000 shall be provided from moneys appropriated by Congress for this specific purpose to the Secretary.


(5) Additional paymentsIn the event that any of the sums described in paragraph (2) or (3) are not timely paid by the Coachella Valley Water District or the Imperial Irrigation District, as the case may be, the delinquent payor shall pay an additional sum equal to 10 percent interest annually on the amount outstanding daily, compounded yearly on December 31 of each respective year, until all outstanding amounts due have been paid in full.


(6) Severally liable for paymentsThe Coachella Valley Water District, the Imperial Irrigation District, and the United States shall each be severally liable, but not jointly liable, for its respective obligation to make the payments specified by this subsection.



(c) Administration of settlement trust fundsThe Secretary shall administer and distribute funds held in the Torres-Martinez Settlement Trust Funds Account, the Torres-Martinez Allottees Settlement Account I, and the Torres-Martinez Allottees Settlement Account II in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Settlement Agreement.


(Pub. L. 106–568, title VI, § 605, Dec. 27, 2000, 114 Stat. 2908.)

Effective DateSection effective on date on which the Secretary determines that certain conditions with respect to the Settlement Agreement and provisions of title VI of Pub. L. 106–568 have been met, see section 611(b) of Pub. L. 106–568, set out as a note under section 1778 of this title.


