§ 1395. Definitions(a) As used in sections 1393 and 1394 of this title—(1) The term “United States”, when used in a geographical sense, but not the term “continental United States”, includes all Territories and possessions of the United States, other than the Philippines.

(2) The term “cordage” includes yarns, twines (including binding twine described in paragraph 1622 11 See References in Text note below. of section 1201 of title 19), cords, cordage, rope and cable, tarred or untarred, wholly or in chief value of manila (abaca) or other hard fiber.

(3) The term “Philippine Government” means the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines.

(4) The term “United States duty”, when used in connection with the computation of export taxes, means the lowest rate of ordinary customs duty in effect at the time of the shipment of the article concerned from the Philippines and applicable to like articles imported into the continental United States from any foreign country, except Cuba, or when more than one rate of ordinary customs duty is applicable to such like articles, the aggregate of such rates.

(5) The term “refined sugars” possesses the same meaning as the term “direct-consumption sugar” as defined in section 1101 1 of title 7.

(6) The term “Philippine article” means an article the growth, produce, or manufacture of the Philippines, in the production of which no materials of other than Philippine or United States origin valued in excess of 20 per centum of the total value of such article was used and which is brought into the United States from the Philippines.

(7) The term “American article” means an article the growth, produce, or manufacture of the United States, in the production of which no materials of other than Philippine or United States origin valued in excess of 20 per centum of the total value of such article was used and which is brought into the Philippines from the United States.

(8) The term “Philippine import duty” means the lowest rate of ordinary customs duty applicable at the port of arrival, at the time of entry, or withdrawal from warehouse, for consumption of the article concerned, to like articles imported into the Philippines from any other foreign country, or when more than one rate of ordinary customs duty is applicable to such like articles, the aggregate of such rates.


(b) As used in subsection (a) of this section:(1) The terms “includes” and “including” shall not be deemed to exclude other things otherwise within the meaning of the term defined.

(2) The term “ordinary customs duty” shall not include any import duty or charge which is imposed to compensate for an internal tax imposed in respect of a like domestic product or in respect of a commodity from which the imported product has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part.


(Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, § 18, as added Aug. 7, 1939, ch. 502, § 5, 53 Stat. 1231.)


References in TextParagraph 1622 of section 1201 of title 19, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), was repealed by act May 24, 1962, Pub. L. 87–456, title I, § 101(a), 76 Stat. 72.
Since their independence, the Philippine Islands have been a republic, and are no longer designated as a “Commonwealth” as referred to in par. (3) of subsec. (a) of this section. See note below.
Section 1101 of title 7, referred to in subsec. (a)(5), was omitted from the Code.

Philippine IndependencePhilippine Islands granted independence by Proc. No. 2695, set out as a note under section 1394 of this title.


