§ 514. Goals and purposes(a) Goals.—The goals of the intelligent transportation system program include—(1) enhancement of surface transportation efficiency and facilitation of intermodalism and international trade to enable existing facilities to meet a significant portion of future transportation needs, including public access to employment, goods, and services and to reduce regulatory, financial, and other transaction costs to public agencies and system users;

(2) achievement of national transportation safety goals, including enhancement of safe operation of motor vehicles and nonmotorized vehicles and improved emergency response to collisions, with particular emphasis on decreasing the number and severity of collisions;

(3) protection and enhancement of the natural environment and communities affected by surface transportation, with particular emphasis on assisting State and local governments to achieve national environmental goals;

(4) accommodation of the needs of all users of surface transportation systems, including operators of commercial motor vehicles, passenger motor vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, and pedestrians (including individuals with disabilities); and

(5) enhancement of national defense mobility and improvement of the ability of the United States to respond to security-related or other manmade emergencies and natural disasters.


(b) Purposes.—The Secretary shall implement activities under the intelligent transportation system program, at a minimum—(1) to expedite, in both metropolitan and rural areas, deployment and integration of intelligent transportation systems for consumers of passenger and freight transportation;

(2) to ensure that Federal, State, and local transportation officials have adequate knowledge of intelligent transportation systems for consideration in the transportation planning process;

(3) to improve regional cooperation and operations planning for effective intelligent transportation system deployment;

(4) to promote the innovative use of private resources in support of intelligent transportation system development;

(5) to facilitate, in cooperation with the motor vehicle industry, the introduction of vehicle-based safety enhancing systems;

(6) to support the application of intelligent transportation systems that increase the safety and efficiency of commercial motor vehicle operations;

(7) to develop a workforce capable of developing, operating, and maintaining intelligent transportation systems;

(8) to provide continuing support for operations and maintenance of intelligent transportation systems; and

(9) to ensure a systems approach that includes cooperation among vehicles, infrastructure, and users.


(Added Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title III, § 53002(a), July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 898.)

Effective DateSection effective Oct. 1, 2012, see section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under section 101 of this title.


