§ 3198. Program activities(a) Activities provided by Job Corps centers(1) In generalEach Job Corps center shall provide enrollees with an intensive, well organized, and fully supervised program of education, including English language acquisition programs, career and technical education and training, work experience, work-based learning, recreational activities, physical rehabilitation and development, driver’s education, and counseling, which may include information about financial literacy. Each Job Corps center shall provide enrollees assigned to the center with access to career services described in clauses (i) through (xi) of section 3174(c)(2)(A) of this title.


(2) Relationship to opportunitiesThe activities provided under this subsection shall be targeted to helping enrollees, on completion of their enrollment—(A) secure and maintain meaningful unsubsidized employment;

(B) enroll in and complete secondary education or postsecondary education or training programs, including other suitable career and technical education and training, and apprenticeship programs; or

(C) satisfy Armed Forces requirements.


(3) Link to employment opportunitiesThe career and technical education and training provided shall be linked to employment opportunities in in-demand industry sectors and occupations in the State or local area in which the Job Corps center is located and, to the extent practicable, in the State or local area in which the enrollee intends to seek employment after graduation.



(b) Academic and career and technical education and trainingThe Secretary may arrange for career and technical education and training of enrollees through local public or private educational agencies, career and technical educational institutions, technical institutes, or national service providers, whenever such entities provide education and training substantially equivalent in cost and quality to that which the Secretary could provide through other means.


(c) Advanced career training programs(1) In generalThe Secretary may arrange for programs of advanced career training for selected enrollees in which the enrollees may continue to participate for a period of not to exceed 1 year in addition to the period of participation to which the enrollees would otherwise be limited. The advanced career training may be provided through the eligible providers of training services identified under section 3152 of this title.


(2) BenefitsDuring the period of participation in an advanced career training program, an enrollee shall be eligible for full Job Corps benefits, or a monthly stipend equal to the average value of the residential support, food, allowances, and other benefits provided to enrollees assigned to residential Job Corps centers.


(3) DemonstrationThe Secretary shall develop standards by which any operator seeking to enroll additional enrollees in an advanced career training program shall demonstrate, before the operator may carry out such additional enrollment, that—(A) participants in such program have achieved a satisfactory rate of completion and placement in training-related jobs; and

(B) for the most recently preceding 2 program years, such operator has, on average, met or exceeded the expected levels of performance under section 3209(c)(1) of this title for each of the primary indicators of performance for eligible youth described in section 3141(b)(2)(A)(ii) of this title.



(d) Graduate servicesIn order to promote the retention of graduates in employment or postsecondary education, the Secretary shall arrange for the provision of job placement and support services to graduates for up to 12 months after the date of graduation. Multiple resources, including one-stop partners, may support the provision of these services, including services from the State vocational rehabilitation agency, to supplement job placement and job development efforts for Job Corps graduates who are individuals with disabilities.


(e) Child careThe Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, provide child care at or near Job Corps centers, for individuals who require child care for their children in order to participate in the Job Corps.


(Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 148, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1547.)

Effective DateSection effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 [probably July 1, 2015], see section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128, set out as a note under section 3101 of this title.


