§ 6702. National Writing Project(a) AuthorizationThe Secretary is authorized to award a grant to the National Writing Project, a nonprofit educational organization that has as its primary purpose the improvement of the quality of student writing and learning (hereafter in this section referred to as the “grantee”) to improve the teaching of writing and the use of writing as a part of the learning process in our Nation’s classrooms.


(b) Requirements of grantThe grant shall provide that—(1) the grantee will enter into contracts with institutions of higher education or other nonprofit educational providers (hereafter in this section referred to as “contractors”) under which the contractors will agree to establish, operate, and provide the non-Federal share of the cost of teacher training programs in effective approaches and processes for the teaching of writing;

(2) funds made available by the Secretary to the grantee pursuant to any contract entered into under this section will be used to pay the Federal share of the cost of establishing and operating teacher training programs as provided in paragraph (1); and

(3) the grantee will meet such other conditions and standards as the Secretary determines to be necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this section and will provide such technical assistance as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.


(c) Teacher training programsThe teacher training programs authorized in subsection (a) of this section shall—(1) be conducted during the school year and during the summer months;

(2) train teachers who teach grades kindergarten through college;

(3) select teachers to become members of a National Writing Project teacher network whose members will conduct writing workshops for other teachers in the area served by each National Writing Project site; and

(4) encourage teachers from all disciplines to participate in such teacher training programs.


(d) Federal share(1) In generalExcept as provided in paragraph (2) or (3) and for purposes of subsection (a) of this section, the term “Federal share” means, with respect to the costs of teacher training programs authorized in subsection (a) of this section, 50 percent of such costs to the contractor.


(2) WaiverThe Secretary may waive the provisions of paragraph (1) on a case-by-case basis if the National Advisory Board described in subsection (e) of this section determines, on the basis of financial need, that such waiver is necessary.


(3) MaximumThe Federal share of the costs of teacher training programs conducted pursuant to subsection (a) of this section may not exceed $100,000 for any one contractor, or $200,000 for a statewide program administered by any one contractor in at least five sites throughout the State.



(e) National Advisory Board(1) EstablishmentThe National Writing Project shall establish and operate a National Advisory Board.


(2) CompositionThe National Advisory Board established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall consist of—(A) national educational leaders;

(B) leaders in the field of writing; and

(C) such other individuals as the National Writing Project determines necessary.


(3) DutiesThe National Advisory Board established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall—(A) advise the National Writing Project on national issues related to student writing and the teaching of writing;

(B) review the activities and programs of the National Writing Project; and

(C) support the continued development of the National Writing Project.



(f) Evaluation(1) In generalThe Secretary shall conduct an independent evaluation by grant or contract of the teacher training programs administered pursuant to this subpart. Such evaluation shall specify the amount of funds expended by the National Writing Project and each contractor receiving assistance under this section for administrative costs. The results of such evaluation shall be made available to the appropriate committees of Congress.


(2) Funding limitationThe Secretary shall reserve not more than $150,000 from the total amount appropriated pursuant to the authority of subsection (h) of this section for fiscal year 2002 and each of the 5 succeeding fiscal years to conduct the evaluation described in paragraph (1).



(g) Application review(1) Review BoardThe National Writing Project shall establish and operate a National Review Board that shall consist of—(A) leaders in the field of research in writing; and

(B) such other individuals as the National Writing Project deems necessary.


(2) DutiesThe National Review Board shall—(A) review all applications for assistance under this subsection; and

(B) recommend applications for assistance under this subsection for funding by the National Writing Project.



(h) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subpart $15,000,000 as may be necessary for fiscal year 2002 and each of the 5 succeeding fiscal years.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2332, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title II, § 201, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1660.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6702, Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2402, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3635; amended Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(f) [title VIII, § 101(b)(4)], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–337, 2681–407, defined terms used in this subchapter, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.

Termination of Advisory BoardsAdvisory boards established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a board established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such board is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a board established by Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See sections 3(2) and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


