§ 74. Maintenance(a) Pledge of funds for upkeep; authorization of appropriationsThe faith of the United States is pledged that, on completion of the National Gallery of Art by the donor in accordance with the terms of this subchapter and the acquisition from the donor of the collection of works of art, the United States will provide such funds as may be necessary for the upkeep of the National Gallery of Art and the administrative expenses and costs of operation thereof, including the protection and care of works of art acquired by the board, so that the National Gallery of Art shall be at all times properly maintained and the works of art contained therein shall be exhibited regularly to the general public free of charge. For these purposes, and to provide, prior to the completion of the National Gallery of Art, for the protection and care of the works of art in said Gallery and for administrative and operating expenses and equipment preparatory to the opening of the Gallery to the public, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary.


(b) Acceptance of gifts and other property; investment of fundsThe board is authorized to accept for the Smithsonian Institution and to hold and administer gifts, bequests, or devises of money, securities, or other property of whatsoever character for the benefit of the National Gallery of Art. Unless otherwise restricted by the terms of the gift, bequest, or devise, the board is authorized to sell or exchange and to invest or reinvest in such investments as it may determine from time to time the moneys, securities, or other property composing trust funds given, bequeathed, or devised to or for the benefit of the National Gallery of Art. The income as and when collected shall be placed in such depositaries as the board shall determine and shall be subject to expenditure by the board.


(c) Appointment and compensation of officers and employeesThe board shall appoint and fix the compensation and duties of a director, an assistant director, a secretary, and a chief curator of the National Gallery of Art, and of such other officers and employees of the National Gallery of Art as may be necessary for the efficient administration of the functions of the board. Such director, assistant director, secretary, and chief curator shall be compensated from trust funds available to the board for the purpose, and their appointment and salaries shall not be subject to the civil-service laws or chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5. The director, assistant director, secretary, and chief curator shall be well qualified by experience and training to perform the duties of their office and the original appointment to each such office shall be subject to the approval of the donor.


(d) Review of actions of boardThe actions of the board, including any payment made or directed to be made by it from any trust funds, shall not be subject to review by any officer or agency other than a court of law.


(Mar. 24, 1937, ch. 50, § 4, 50 Stat. 52; Apr. 13, 1939, ch. 61, 53 Stat. 577; Oct. 28, 1949, ch. 782, title XI, § 1106(a), 63 Stat. 972.)

Codification
In subsec. (c), “chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5” substituted for “the Classification Act of 1949, as amended” on authority of Pub. L. 89–554, § 7(b), Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 631, the first section of which enacted Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Amendments1949—Act Oct. 28, 1949, substituted “Classification Act of 1949” for “Classification Act of 1923”.
1939—Subsec. (a). Act Apr. 13, 1939, inserted in last sentence “and to provide, prior to the completion of the National Gallery of Art, for the protection and care of the works of art in said Gallery and for administrative and operating expenses and equipment preparatory to the opening of the Gallery to the public”.

RepealsAct Oct. 28, 1949, ch. 782, cited as a credit to this section, was repealed (subject to a savings clause) by Pub. L. 89–554, Sept. 6, 1966, § 8, 80 Stat. 632, 655.


