§ 516. Research and development(a) In General.—The Secretary shall carry out a comprehensive program of intelligent transportation system research and development, and operational tests of intelligent vehicles, intelligent infrastructure systems, and other similar activities that are necessary to carry out this chapter.

(b) Priority Areas.—Under the program, the Secretary shall give higher priority to funding projects that—(1) enhance mobility and productivity through improved traffic management, incident management, transit management, freight management, road weather management, toll collection, traveler information, or highway operations systems and remote sensing products;

(2) use interdisciplinary approaches to develop traffic management strategies and tools to address multiple impacts of congestion concurrently;

(3) address traffic management, incident management, transit management, toll collection traveler information, or highway operations systems;

(4) incorporate research on the potential impact of environmental, weather, and natural conditions on intelligent transportation systems, including the effects of cold climates;

(5) enhance intermodal use of intelligent transportation systems for diverse groups, including for emergency and health-related services;

(6) enhance safety through improved crash avoidance and protection, crash and other notification, commercial motor vehicle operations, and infrastructure-based or cooperative safety systems; or

(7) facilitate the integration of intelligent infrastructure, vehicle, and control technologies.


(c) Federal Share.—The Federal share payable on account of any project or activity carried out under subsection (a) shall not exceed 80 percent.

(Added Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title III, § 53004(a), July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 902.)

Effective DateSection effective Oct. 1, 2012, see section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under section 101 of this title.


