§ 1300b–13. Band roll(a) Establishment; publication in Federal RegisterWithin one year of January 8, 1983, the Secretary shall, after consultation with the Tribe, compile a roll of those members of the Tribe who possess Kickapoo blood and who are also members of the Band. When said roll is complete, the Secretary shall immediately publish notice in the Federal Register stating that the roll has been completed. The Secretary shall ensure that the roll, once completed, is maintained and that it is current.


(b) Report to CongressIf the Secretary does not compile the roll within the period prescribed in subsection (a) of this section, he shall submit a report to Congress setting forth the reasons he did not do so.


(c) Citizenship for applicantsFor a period of five years after the publication of the Federal Register notice required under subsection (a) of this section, any member of the Band whose name appears on the roll compiled by the Secretary, may, at his option, apply for United States citizenship. Such application shall be made to the Immigration and Naturalization Service and, upon receipt of the application, citizenship shall promptly be granted to the applicant.


(d) Border crossing, living and working rightsNotwithstanding the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.], all members of the Band shall be entitled to freely pass and repass the borders of the United States and to live and work in the United States.


(Pub. L. 97–429, § 4, Jan. 8, 1983, 96 Stat. 2269.)


References in TextThe Immigration and Nationality Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is act June 27, 1952, ch. 477, 66 Stat. 163, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 12 (§ 1101 et seq.) of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1101 of Title 8 and Tables.


Abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service and Transfer of Functions
For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out under section 1551 of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality.


