§ 6822. Native American and Alaska Native children in school(a) Eligible entitiesFor the purpose of carrying out programs under this part for individuals served by elementary schools, secondary schools, and postsecondary schools operated predominately for Native American children (including Alaska Native children), the following shall be considered to be an eligible entity:(1) An Indian tribe.

(2) A tribally sanctioned educational authority.

(3) A Native Hawaiian or Native American Pacific Islander native language educational organization.

(4) An elementary school or secondary school that is operated or funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, or a consortium of such schools.

(5) An elementary school or secondary school operated under a contract with or grant from the Bureau of Indian Affairs, in consortium with another such school or a tribal or community organization.

(6) An elementary school or secondary school operated by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and an institution of higher education, in consortium with an elementary school or secondary school operated under a contract with or grant from the Bureau of Indian Affairs or a tribal or community organization.


(b) Submission of applications for assistanceNotwithstanding any other provision of this part, an entity that is considered to be an eligible entity under subsection (a) of this section, and that desires to receive Federal financial assistance under this subpart, shall submit an application to the Secretary.


(c) Special ruleAn eligible entity described in subsection (a) of this section that receives Federal financial assistance pursuant to this section shall not be eligible to receive a subgrant under section 6824 of this title.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title III, § 3112, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title III, § 301, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1694.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 3112 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 6812 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


