§ 1022f. State functions(a) State assessmentIn order to receive funds under this chapter and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42, a State shall conduct an assessment to identify low-performing teacher preparation programs in the State and to assist such programs through the provision of technical assistance. Each such State shall provide the Secretary with an annual list of low-performing teacher preparation programs and an identification of those programs at risk of being placed on such list, as applicable. Such assessment shall be described in the report under section 1022d(b) of this title. Levels of performance shall be determined solely by the State and may include criteria based on information collected pursuant to this part, including progress in meeting the goals of—(1) increasing the percentage of highly qualified teachers in the State, including increasing professional development opportunities;

(2) improving student academic achievement for elementary and secondary students; and

(3) raising the standards for entry into the teaching profession.


(b) Termination of eligibilityAny teacher preparation program from which the State has withdrawn the State’s approval, or terminated the State’s financial support, due to the low performance of the program based upon the State assessment described in subsection (a)—(1) shall be ineligible for any funding for professional development activities awarded by the Department;

(2) may not be permitted to accept or enroll any student who receives aid under subchapter IV of this chapter and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42 in the institution’s teacher preparation program;

(3) shall provide transitional support, including remedial services if necessary, for students enrolled at the institution at the time of termination of financial support or withdrawal of approval; and

(4) shall be reinstated upon demonstration of improved performance, as determined by the State.


(c) Negotiated rulemakingIf the Secretary develops any regulations implementing subsection (b)(2), the Secretary shall submit such proposed regulations to a negotiated rulemaking process, which shall include representatives of States, institutions of higher education, and educational and student organizations.


(d) Application of the requirementsThe requirements of this section shall apply to both traditional teacher preparation programs and alternative routes to State certification and licensure programs.


(Pub. L. 89–329, title II, § 207, as added Pub. L. 110–315, title II, § 201(2), Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3152.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 207 of Pub. L. 89–329 was classified to section 1027 of this title, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 110–315.
Another prior section 207 of Pub. L. 89–329 was classified to section 1027 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 96–374.


