§ 6622. Local applications and needs assessment(a) In generalTo be eligible to receive a subgrant under this subpart, a local educational agency shall submit an application to the State educational agency at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the State educational agency may reasonably require.


(b) ContentsEach application submitted under this section shall be based on the needs assessment required in subsection (c) of this section and shall include the following:(1)(A) A description of the activities to be carried out by the local educational agency under this subpart and how these activities will be aligned with—(i) challenging State academic content standards and student academic achievement standards, and State assessments; and

(ii) the curricula and programs tied to the standards described in clause (i).


(B) A description of how the activities will be based on a review of scientifically based research and an explanation of why the activities are expected to improve student academic achievement.


(2) A description of how the activities will have a substantial, measurable, and positive impact on student academic achievement and how the activities will be used as part of a broader strategy to eliminate the achievement gap that separates low-income and minority students from other students.

(3) An assurance that the local educational agency will target funds to schools within the jurisdiction of the local educational agency that—(A) have the lowest proportion of highly qualified teachers;

(B) have the largest average class size; or

(C) are identified for school improvement under section 6316(b) of this title.


(4) A description of how the local educational agency will coordinate professional development activities authorized under this subpart with professional development activities provided through other Federal, State, and local programs.

(5) A description of the professional development activities that will be made available to teachers and principals under this subpart and how the local educational agency will ensure that the professional development (which may include teacher mentoring) needs of teachers and principals will be met using funds under this subpart.

(6) A description of how the local educational agency will integrate funds under this subpart with funds received under part D of this subchapter that are used for professional development to train teachers to integrate technology into curricula and instruction to improve teaching, learning, and technology literacy.

(7) A description of how the local educational agency, teachers, paraprofessionals, principals, other relevant school personnel, and parents have collaborated in the planning of activities to be carried out under this subpart and in the preparation of the application.

(8) A description of the results of the needs assessment described in subsection (c) of this section.

(9) A description of how the local educational agency will provide training to enable teachers to—(A) teach and address the needs of students with different learning styles, particularly students with disabilities, students with special learning needs (including students who are gifted and talented), and students with limited English proficiency;

(B) improve student behavior in the classroom and identify early and appropriate interventions to help students described in subparagraph (A) learn;

(C) involve parents in their child’s education; and

(D) understand and use data and assessments to improve classroom practice and student learning.


(10) A description of how the local educational agency will use funds under this subpart to meet the requirements of section 6319 of this title.

(11) An assurance that the local educational agency will comply with section 7881 of this title (regarding participation by private school children and teachers).


(c) Needs assessment(1) In generalTo be eligible to receive a subgrant under this subpart, a local educational agency shall conduct an assessment of local needs for professional development and hiring, as identified by the local educational agency and school staff.


(2) RequirementsSuch needs assessment shall be conducted with the involvement of teachers, including teachers participating in programs under part A of subchapter I of this chapter, and shall take into account the activities that need to be conducted in order to give teachers the means, including subject matter knowledge and teaching skills, and to give principals the instructional leadership skills to help teachers, to provide students with the opportunity to meet challenging State and local student academic achievement standards.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2122, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title II, § 201, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1628.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6622, Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2102, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3615, related to authorized professional development activities, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


