§ 2903. Japan-United States Friendship Commission(a) Establishment; compositionThere is established a commission to be known as the Japan-United States Friendship Commission (hereafter referred to as the “Commission”). The Commission shall be composed of—(1) the members of the United States Panel of the Joint Committee on United States-Japan Cultural and Educational Cooperation;

(2) two Members of the House of Representatives, to be appointed at the beginning of each Congress or upon the occurrence of a vacancy during a Congress by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;

(3) two Members of the Senate, to be appointed at the beginning of each Congress or upon the occurrence of a vacancy during a Congress by the President pro tempore of the Senate;

(4) the Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts; and

(5) the Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities.


(b) Compensation and travel expensesMembers of the Commission who are not full-time officers or employees of the United States and who are not Members of Congress shall, while serving on business of the Commission, be entitled to receive compensation at rates fixed by the President, but not exceeding the rate specified at the time of such service for grade GS–18 in section 5332 of title 5, including traveltime; and while so serving away from their homes or regular places of business, all members of the Commission may be allowed travel expenses including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5 for persons in Government service employed intermittently.


(c) Chairman; quorum; meetingsThe Chairman of the United States Panel of the Joint Committee on United States-Japan Cultural and Educational Cooperation shall be the Chairman of the Commission. A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. The Commission shall meet at least twice in each year.


(Pub. L. 94–118, § 4, Oct. 20, 1975, 89 Stat. 604.)

References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay RatesReferences in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of Pub. L. 101–509, set out in a note under section 5376 of Title 5.


