§ 276h. United States group; appointment; term; meetings
Not to exceed twenty-four Members of Congress shall be appointed to meet jointly and at least annually with representatives of the Chamber of Deputies and Chamber of Senators of the Mexican Congress for discussion of common problems in the interests of relations between the United States and Mexico. Of the Members of the Congress to be appointed for the purposes of this subchapter (hereinafter designated as the United States group) half shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House from Members of the House (not less than four of whom shall be from the Foreign Affairs Committee), and half shall be appointed by the President of the Senate upon recommendations of the majority and minority leaders of the Senate from Members of the Senate (not less than four of whom shall be from the Foreign Relations Committee). Such appointments shall be for the period of each meeting of the Mexico-United States Interparliamentary group except for the four members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and the four members of the Foreign Relations Committee, whose appointments shall be for the duration of each Congress. The Chairman or Vice Chairman of the House delegation shall be a Member from the Foreign Affairs Committee, and, unless the President of the Senate, upon the recommendation of the Majority Leader, determines otherwise, the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Senate delegation shall be a Member from the Foreign Relations Committee.
(Pub. L. 86–420, § 1, Apr. 9, 1960, 74 Stat. 40; Pub. L. 95–45, § 4(b), June 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 222; Pub. L. 103–437, § 9(a)(4), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4588.)

Amendments1994—Pub. L. 103–437 substituted “Foreign Affairs” for “International Relations” wherever appearing.
1977—Pub. L. 95–45 substituted “International Relations Committee” for “Foreign Affairs Committee” as the name of the House Committee from which not less than four of the House appointees must be drawn, inserted requirement that the appointment of the Senate appointees by the President of the Senate be made upon the recommendations of the majority and minority leaders of the Senate, and inserted provision that the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the House delegation be a Member from the International Relations Committee, and, unless the President of the Senate, upon the recommendation of the Majority Leader, determines otherwise, the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Senate delegation be a Member from the Foreign Relations Committee.


