§ 2102. Ensuring the safety of pet food(a) Processing and ingredient standardsNot later than 2 years after September 27, 2007, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this chapter as the “Secretary”), in consultation with the Association of American Feed Control Officials and other relevant stakeholder groups, including veterinary medical associations, animal health organizations, and pet food manufacturers, shall by regulation establish—(1) ingredient standards and definitions with respect to pet food;

(2) processing standards for pet food; and

(3) updated standards for the labeling of pet food that include nutritional and ingredient information.


(b) Early warning surveillance systems and notification during pet food recallsNot later than 1 year after September 27, 2007, the Secretary shall establish an early warning and surveillance system to identify adulteration of the pet food supply and outbreaks of illness associated with pet food. In establishing such system, the Secretary shall—(1) consider using surveillance and monitoring mechanisms similar to, or in coordination with, those used to monitor human or animal health, such as the Foodborne Diseases Active Surveillance Network (FoodNet) and PulseNet of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Food Emergency Response Network of the Food and Drug Administration and the Department of Agriculture, and the National Animal Health Laboratory Network of the Department of Agriculture;

(2) consult with relevant professional associations and private sector veterinary hospitals;

(3) work with the National Companion Animal Surveillance Program, the Health Alert Network, or other notification networks as appropriate to inform veterinarians and relevant stakeholders during any recall of pet food; and

(4) use such information and conduct such other activities as the Secretary deems appropriate.


(Pub. L. 110–85, title X, § 1002, Sept. 27, 2007, 121 Stat. 963.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this title”, meaning title X of Pub. L. 110–85, Sept. 27, 2007, 121 Stat. 962, which enacted this chapter and section 350f of this title, amended sections 321 and 331 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 350f and 2110 of this title. For complete classification of title X to the Code, see Tables.


