§ 9009. Office of Children’s Issues(a) Director requirementsThe Secretary of State shall fill the position of Director of the Office of Children’s Issues of the Department of State (in this section referred to as the “Office”) with an individual of senior rank who can ensure long-term continuity in the management and policy matters of the Office and has a strong background in consular affairs.


(b) Case officer staffingEffective April 1, 2000, there shall be assigned to the Office of Children’s Issues of the Department of State a sufficient number of case officers to ensure that the average caseload for each officer does not exceed 75.


(c) Embassy contactThe Secretary of State shall designate in each United States diplomatic mission an employee who shall serve as the point of contact for matters relating to international abductions of children by parents. The Director of the Office shall regularly inform the designated employee of children of United States citizens abducted by parents to that country.


(d) Reports to parents(1) In generalExcept as provided in paragraph (2), beginning 6 months after November 29, 1999, and at least once every 6 months thereafter, the Secretary of State shall report to each parent who has requested assistance regarding an abducted child overseas. Each such report shall include information on the current status of the abducted child’s case and the efforts by the Department of State to resolve the case.


(2) ExceptionThe requirement in paragraph (1) shall not apply in a case of an abducted child if—(A) the case has been closed and the Secretary of State has reported the reason the case was closed to the parent who requested assistance; or

(B) the parent seeking assistance requests that such reports not be provided.



(Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title II, § 201], Nov. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 1536, 1501A–419).

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Admiral James W. Nance and Meg Donovan Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2000 and 2001, and not as part of the International Child Abduction Remedies Act which comprises this chapter.
Section was formerly classified to section 11608a of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.


