§ 7253c. Authorized programs(a) Establishment of program(1) In generalThe Secretary (after consultation with experts in the field of the education of gifted and talented students) is authorized to make grants to, or enter into contracts with, State educational agencies, local educational agencies, institutions of higher education, other public agencies, and other private agencies and organizations (including Indian tribes and Indian organizations (as such terms are defined in section 450b of title 25) and Native Hawaiian organizations) to assist such agencies, institutions, and organizations in carrying out programs or projects authorized by this subpart that are designed to meet the educational needs of gifted and talented students, including the training of personnel in the education of gifted and talented students and in the use, where appropriate, of gifted and talented services, materials, and methods for all students.


(2) ApplicationEach entity seeking assistance under this subpart shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require. Each such application shall describe how—(A) the proposed gifted and talented services, materials, and methods can be adapted, if appropriate, for use by all students; and

(B) the proposed programs can be evaluated.



(b) Use of fundsPrograms and projects assisted under this section may include each of the following:(1) Conducting—(A) scientifically based research on methods and techniques for identifying and teaching gifted and talented students and for using gifted and talented programs and methods to serve all students; and

(B) program evaluations, surveys, and the collection, analysis, and development of information needed to accomplish the purpose of this subpart.


(2) Carrying out professional development (including fellowships) for personnel (including leadership personnel) involved in the education of gifted and talented students.

(3) Establishing and operating model projects and exemplary programs for serving gifted and talented students, including innovative methods for identifying and educating students who may not be served by traditional gifted and talented programs (such as summer programs, mentoring programs, service learning programs, and cooperative programs involving business, industry, and education).

(4) Implementing innovative strategies, such as cooperative learning, peer tutoring, and service learning.

(5) Carrying out programs of technical assistance and information dissemination, including assistance and information with respect to how gifted and talented programs and methods, where appropriate, may be adapted for use by all students.

(6) Making materials and services available through State regional educational service centers, institutions of higher education, or other entities.

(7) Providing funds for challenging, high-level course work, disseminated through technologies (including distance learning), for individual students or groups of students in schools and local educational agencies that would not otherwise have the resources to provide such course work.


(c) Special ruleTo the extent that funds appropriated to carry out this subpart for a fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 2002 exceed such funds appropriated for fiscal year 2001, the Secretary shall use such excess funds to award grants, on a competitive basis, to State educational agencies, local educational agencies, or both, to implement activities described in subsection (b) of this section.


(d) Center for research and development(1) In generalThe Secretary (after consultation with experts in the field of the education of gifted and talented students) shall establish a National Research Center for the Education of Gifted and Talented Children and Youth through grants to, or contracts with, one or more institutions of higher education or State educational agencies, or a combination or consortium of such institutions and agencies and other public or private agencies and organizations, for the purpose of carrying out activities described in subsection (b) of this section.


(2) DirectorThe National Center shall be headed by a Director. The Secretary may authorize the Director to carry out such functions of the National Center as may be agreed upon through arrangements with institutions of higher education, State educational agencies, local educational agencies, or other public or private agencies and organizations.


(3) FundingThe Secretary may use not more than 30 percent of the funds made available under this subpart for fiscal year 2001 to carry out this subsection.



(e) CoordinationScientifically based research activities supported under this subpart—(1) shall be carried out in consultation with the Institute of Education Sciences to ensure that such activities are coordinated with and enhance the research and development activities supported by such Institute; and

(2) may include collaborative scientifically based research activities which are jointly funded and carried out with such Institute.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5464, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1826; amended Pub. L. 107–279, title IV, § 404(d)(5)(C), (6), Nov. 5, 2002, 116 Stat. 1986.)

Amendments2002—Subsec. (e)(1). Pub. L. 107–279 substituted “Institute of Education Sciences” for “Office of Educational Research and Improvement” and “such Institute” for “such Office”.
Subsec. (e)(2). Pub. L. 107–279, § 404(d)(6), substituted “such Institute” for “such Office”.


