§ 7881. Participation by private school children and teachers(a) Private school participation(1) In generalExcept as otherwise provided in this chapter, to the extent consistent with the number of eligible children in areas served by a State educational agency, local educational agency, educational service agency, consortium of those agencies, or another entity receiving financial assistance under a program specified in subsection (b) of this section, who are enrolled in private elementary schools and secondary schools in areas served by such agency, consortium, or entity, the agency, consortium, or entity shall, after timely and meaningful consultation with appropriate private school officials provide to those children and their teachers or other educational personnel, on an equitable basis, special educational services or other benefits that address their needs under the program.


(2) Secular, neutral, and nonideological services or benefitsEducational services or other benefits, including materials and equipment, provided under this section, shall be secular, neutral, and nonideological.


(3) Special ruleEducational services and other benefits provided under this section for private school children, teachers, and other educational personnel shall be equitable in comparison to services and other benefits for public school children, teachers, and other educational personnel participating in the program and shall be provided in a timely manner.


(4) ExpendituresExpenditures for educational services and other benefits provided under this section for eligible private school children, their teachers, and other educational personnel serving those children shall be equal, taking into account the number and educational needs of the children to be served, to the expenditures for participating public school children.


(5) Provision of servicesAn agency, consortium, or entity described in subsection (a)(1) of this section may provide those services directly or through contracts with public and private agencies, organizations, and institutions.



(b) Applicability(1) In generalThis section applies to programs under—(A) subparts 1 and 3 of part B of subchapter I of this chapter;

(B) part C of subchapter I of this chapter;

(C) part A of subchapter II of this chapter, to the extent provided in paragraph (3);

(D) part B of subchapter II of this chapter;

(E) part D of subchapter II of this chapter;

(F) part A of subchapter III of this chapter;

(G) part A of subchapter IV of this chapter; and

(H) part B of subchapter IV of this chapter.


(2) DefinitionFor the purpose of this section, the term “eligible children” means children eligible for services under a program described in paragraph (1).


(3) Application(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), this subpart, including subsection (a)(4) of this section, applies to funds awarded to a local educational agency under part A of subchapter II of this chapter only to the extent that the local educational agency uses funds under that part to provide professional development to teachers and others.

(B) Subject to subparagraph (A), the share of the local educational agency’s subgrant under part A of subchapter II of this chapter that is used for professional development and subject to a determination of equitable expenditures under subsection (a)(4) of this section shall not be less than the aggregate share of that agency’s awards that were used for professional development for fiscal year 2001 under section 2203(1)(B) (as such section was in effect on the day preceding January 8, 2002) and section 306 of the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 2001.



(c) Consultation(1) In generalTo ensure timely and meaningful consultation, a State educational agency, local educational agency, educational service agency, consortium of those agencies, or entity shall consult with appropriate private school officials during the design and development of the programs under this chapter, on issues such as—(A) how the children’s needs will be identified;

(B) what services will be offered;

(C) how, where, and by whom the services will be provided;

(D) how the services will be assessed and how the results of the assessment will be used to improve those services;

(E) the size and scope of the equitable services to be provided to the eligible private school children, teachers, and other educational personnel and the amount of funds available for those services; and

(F) how and when the agency, consortium, or entity will make decisions about the delivery of services, including a thorough consideration and analysis of the views of the private school officials on the provision of contract services through potential third-party providers.


(2) DisagreementIf the agency, consortium, or entity disagrees with the views of the private school officials on the provision of services through a contract, the agency, consortium, or entity shall provide to the private school officials a written explanation of the reasons why the local educational agency has chosen not to use a contractor.


(3) TimingThe consultation required by paragraph (1) shall occur before the agency, consortium, or entity makes any decision that affects the opportunities of eligible private school children, teachers, and other educational personnel to participate in programs under this chapter, and shall continue throughout the implementation and assessment of activities under this section.


(4) Discussion requiredThe consultation required by paragraph (1) shall include a discussion of service delivery mechanisms that the agency, consortium, or entity could use to provide equitable services to eligible private school children, teachers, administrators, and other staff.



(d) Public control of funds(1) In generalThe control of funds used to provide services under this section, and title to materials, equipment, and property purchased with those funds, shall be in a public agency for the uses and purposes provided in this chapter, and a public agency shall administer the funds and property.


(2) Provision of services(A) In generalThe provision of services under this section shall be provided—(i) by employees of a public agency; or

(ii) through contract by the public agency with an individual, association, agency, organization, or other entity.


(B) Independence; public agencyIn the provision of those services, the employee, person, association, agency, organization, or other entity shall be independent of the private school and of any religious organization, and the employment or contract shall be under the control and supervision of the public agency.


(C) Commingling of funds prohibitedFunds used to provide services under this section shall not be commingled with non-Federal funds.




(Pub. L. 89–10, title IX, § 9501, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title IX, § 901, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1975.)


References in TextSection 2203(1)(B) (as such section was in effect on the day preceding January 8, 2002), referred to in subsec. (b)(3)(B), means section 2203(1)(B) of Pub. L. 89–10, as added by Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3621, which was classified to section 6643(1)(B) of this title prior to the general amendment of subchapter II of this chapter by Pub. L. 107–110, title II, § 201, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1620.
Section 306 of the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 2001, referred to in subsec. (b)(3)(B), is section 1(a)(1) [title III, § 306] of Pub. L. 106–554, Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A–41, which is not classified to the Code.

References to Part A of Subchapter III Considered to Be References to Part B of Subchapter IIIReferences to part A of subchapter III of this chapter are considered to be references to part B of subchapter III of this chapter in certain fiscal years. See section 6801(c) of this title.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 7881, Pub. L. 89–10, title IX, § 9161, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3793; amended Pub. L. 105–220, title II, § 251(b)(2)(E), Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1080, defined terms, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110. See section 7491 of this title.


