§ 3103. Presidential authority and duties(a) Data collection program; studies and surveys; periodic report to Congressional committees; statistical information publicationThe President shall, to the extent he deems necessary and feasible—(1) conduct a regular data collection program to secure current information on international capital flows and other information related to international investment and trade in services, including (but not limited to) such information as may be necessary for computing and analyzing the United States balance of payments, the employment and taxes of United States parents and affiliates, and the international investment and trade in services position of the United States;

(2) conduct such studies and surveys as may be necessary to prepare reports in a timely manner on specific aspects of international investment and trade in services which may have significant implications for the economic welfare and national security of the United States;

(3) study the adequacy of information, disclosure, and reporting requirements and procedures relating to international investment and trade in services; recommend necessary improvements in information recording, collection, and retrieval and in statistical analysis and presentation; and report periodically to the Committees on Finance 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma. Foreign Relations 1 and Commerce of the Senate and the Committees on Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives on national and international developments with respect to laws and regulations affecting international investment and trade in services;

(4) conduct (not more frequently than once every five years and in addition to any other surveys conducted pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2)) benchmark surveys with respect to trade in services between unaffiliated United States persons and foreign persons; and

(5) publish for the use of the general public and United States Government agencies periodic, regular, and comprehensive statistical information collected pursuant to this subsection and to the benchmark surveys conducted pursuant to subsections (b) and (c) of this section, including, with respect to foreign direct investment in the United States, information on ownership by foreign governments of United States affiliates by country, and tables, on an aggregated basis, of business enterprises the ownership or control of which by foreign persons is more than 50 percent of the voting securities or other evidences of ownership of such enterprises, and business enterprises the ownership or control of which by foreign persons is 50 percent or less of the voting securities or other evidences of ownership of such enterprises.


(b) Benchmark survey of United States direct investment abroad and foreign direct investment in United StatesWith respect to foreign direct investment in the United States, the President shall conduct a benchmark survey covering year 1980, a benchmark survey covering year 1987, and benchmark surveys covering every fifth year thereafter. With respect to United States direct investment abroad, the President shall conduct a benchmark survey covering year 1982, a benchmark survey covering year 1989, and benchmark surveys covering every fifth year thereafter. In conducting surveys pursuant to this subsection, the President shall, among other things and to the extent he determines necessary and feasible—(1) identify the location, nature, and magnitude of, and changes in total investment by any parent in each of its affiliates and the financial transactions between any parent and each of its affiliates;

(2) obtain (A) information on the balance sheet of parents and affiliates and related financial data, (B) income statements, including the gross sales by primary line of business (with as much product line detail as is necessary and feasible) of parents and affiliates in each country in which they have significant operations, and (C) related information regarding trade (including trade in both goods and services) between a parent and each of its affiliates and between each parent or affiliate and any other person;

(3) collect employment data showing both the number of United States and foreign employees of each parent and affiliate and the levels of compensation, by country, industry, and skill level;

(4) obtain information on tax payments by parents and affiliates by country; and

(5) determine, by industry and country, the total dollar amount of research and development expenditures by each parent and affiliate, payments or other compensation for the transfer of technology between parents and their affiliates, and payments or other compensation received by parents or affiliates from the transfer of technology to other persons.


(c) Benchmark survey of foreign portfolio investment in United States and United States portfolio investment abroad; report to Congress(1) The President shall conduct a comprehensive benchmark survey of foreign portfolio investment in the United States at least once every five years and, for such purposes, shall (among other things and to the extent he determines necessary and feasible) determine the magnitude and aggregate value of portfolio investment, form of investments, types of investors, nationality of investors and recorded residence of foreign private holders, diversification of holdings by economic sector, and holders of record.

(2) In addition to the benchmark surveys conducted pursuant to paragraph (1), the President shall annually compile currently available data on United States portfolio investment abroad including items such as data on the magnitude and aggregate value of portfolio investment, form of investments, types of investors, nationality of investors and recorded residence of private holders, diversification of holdings by economic sector, and holders of record. The President shall submit an analysis of such data to the Congress not later than the first day of July of each year.


(d) Foreign agricultural and real property investment and land data system: study; submittal of findings and conclusions to CongressThe President shall conduct a study of the feasibility of establishing a system to monitor foreign direct investment in agricultural, rural, and urban real property, including the feasibility of establishing a nationwide multipurpose land data system, and shall submit his findings and conclusions to the Congress not later than two years after October 11, 1976.


(e) Report on cost of monitoring and compiling data on legislation enacted by foreign nations regulating and restricting foreign inward investmentThe Secretary of Commerce shall prepare a report on the estimated cost of monitoring and compiling data on legislation enacted by the major trading partners of the United States, and such other foreign nations as the Secretary deems appropriate, which regulates or restricts foreign inward investment in such foreign nations.


(f) Reporting, recordkeeping, and documentationActivities shall be conducted so that information obtained pursuant to this chapter shall be timely and useful in the development of policy with respect to international investment and trade in services. Reporting and recordkeeping requirements imposed under this chapter shall be designed in order to minimize costs to the extent feasible, consistent with effective enforcement and the compilation of information required by this chapter. Reporting, recordkeeping, and documentation requirements shall be periodically reviewed and revised in the light of developments in the field of information technology.


(g) Costs for collecting informationIn collecting information under this chapter, the President shall give due regard to the costs incurred by persons supplying such information, as well as to the costs incurred by the Government, and shall insure that the information collected is only in such detail as is necessary to fulfill the stated purposes for which the information is being gathered.


(h) Bureau of Economic Analysis report(1) The President, or the designee of the President responsible for monitoring the impact of foreign investment in the United States, coordinating implementation of United States policy on investment, and investigating foreign acquisitions under section 2170 of title 50, Appendix, may request a report from the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce. When such request is made in connection with an investigation under such section 2170, the report shall be provided within 14 days after the request is made. When such request is not made in connection with an investigation under such section 2170, the report shall be provided within 60 days after the request.

(2) A report requested under paragraph (1) shall contain the best available information on the extent of foreign direct investment in a given industry, including a breakdown of total investment in the industry, and any foreign government investment in the industry, by country of the foreign owner, and any other information that the Bureau of Economic Analysis or such designee of the President considers relevant. The industry information provided shall be at the most detailed level available of Standard Industrial Classification, subject to the requirements of section 3104 of this title.


(Pub. L. 94–472, § 4, Oct. 11, 1976, 90 Stat. 2060; Pub. L. 95–381, § 2, Sept. 22, 1978, 92 Stat. 726; H. Res. 89, Feb. 5, 1979; Pub. L. 97–33, §§ 1–3, Aug. 7, 1981, 95 Stat. 170; Pub. L. 97–70, Oct. 26, 1981, 95 Stat. 1045; Pub. L. 98–573, title III, § 306(b)(3), (4), Oct. 30, 1984, 98 Stat. 3010; Pub. L. 101–533, § 6(b), (c), Nov. 7, 1990, 104 Stat. 2348.)

Amendments1990—Subsec. (a)(5). Pub. L. 101–533, § 6(b), inserted before period at end “, including, with respect to foreign direct investment in the United States, information on ownership by foreign governments of United States affiliates by country, and tables, on an aggregated basis, of business enterprises the ownership or control of which by foreign persons is more than 50 percent of the voting securities or other evidences of ownership of such enterprises, and business enterprises the ownership or control of which by foreign persons is 50 percent or less of the voting securities or other evidences of ownership of such enterprises”.
Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 101–533, § 6(c), added subsec. (h).
1984—Subsec. (a)(1), (2). Pub. L. 98–573, § 306(b)(4)(A)(ii), inserted “and trade in services” after “international investment” wherever appearing.
Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 98–573, § 306(b)(3), (4)(A)(i)–(iii), inserted reference to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committees on Ways and Means and Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and substituted “presentation” for “presentation relating to international investment”, inserted “and trade in services” after “international investment” in two places, and struck out “and” at end.
Subsec. (a)(4), (5). Pub. L. 98–573, § 306(b)(4)(A)(iv), (v), added par. (4) and redesignated former par. (4) as (5).
Subsec. (b)(2)(C). Pub. L. 98–573, § 306(b)(4)(B), inserted “(including trade in both goods and services)” after “regarding trade”.
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 98–573, § 306(b)(4)(C), inserted “and trade in services” after “international investment”.
1981—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 97–70 substituted “year” for “calendar year” in five places in provisions preceding par. (1).
Pub. L. 97–33, § 1, substituted “With respect to foreign direct investment in the United States, the President shall conduct a benchmark survey covering calendar year 1980, a benchmark survey covering calendar year 1987, and benchmark surveys covering every fifth calendar year thereafter. With respect to United States direct investment abroad, the President shall conduct a benchmark survey covering calendar year 1982, a benchmark survey covering calendar year 1989, and benchmark surveys covering every fifth year thereafter. In conducting surveys pursuant to this subsection, the President shall,” for “With respect to the United States direct investment abroad and foreign direct investment in the United States, the President shall conduct a comprehensive benchmark survey at least once every five years and, for such purpose, shall,” in provisions preceding par (1).
Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 97–33, § 2, substituted “the President shall annually compile currently available data on United States portfolio investment abroad including items such as data on the magnitude and aggregate value of portfolio investment, form of investments, types of investors, nationality of investors and recorded residence of private holders, diversification of holdings by economic sector, and holders of record. The President shall submit an analysis of such data to the Congress not later than the first day of July of each year” for “the President shall conduct a benchmark survey of United States portfolio investment abroad and, for such purpose, shall (among other things and to the extent he determines necessary and feasible) determine the magnitude and aggregate value of portfolio investment, form of investments, types of investors, nationality of investors and recorded residence of private holders, diversification of holdings by economic sector, and holders of record. The President shall complete such survey not later than the end of the five-year period beginning on October 11, 1976. After completion of such survey, the President shall report to the Congress on the feasibility and desirability of conducting, on a periodic basis, additional benchmark surveys of United States portfolio investment abroad. If he determines that such additional benchmark surveys are feasible and desirable, he may conduct such surveys”.
Subsecs. (e) to (g). Pub. L. 97–33, § 3, added subsec. (e) and redesignated subsecs. (e) and (f) as (f) and (g), respectively.
1979—Subsec. (a)(3). H. Res. 89 changed name of Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives to Committee on Foreign Affairs.
1978—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 95–381 substituted provisions setting forth requirements respecting interim and final reports to Congress, for provisions requiring submission of findings and conclusions to Congress not later than two years after Oct. 11, 1976.


Change of Name
Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives by section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress. Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.

Termination of Reporting RequirementsFor termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec. (c)(2) of this section relating to submitting an analysis of compiled data to Congress each year, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66, as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and page 30 of House Document No. 103–7.


