“SEC. 2163. TEMPORARY FINANCING OF SHORT-TIME COMPENSATION AGREEMENTS.“(a) Federal-State Agreements.—“(1) In general.—Any State which desires to do so may enter into, and participate in, an agreement under this section with the Secretary provided that such State’s law does not provide for the payment of short-time compensation under a short-time compensation program (as defined in section 3306(v) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as added by section 2161(a)).

“(2) Ability to terminate.—Any State which is a party to an agreement under this section may, upon providing 30 days’ written notice to the Secretary, terminate such agreement.


“(b) Provisions of Federal-State Agreement.—“(1) In general.—Any agreement under this section shall provide that the State agency of the State will make payments of short-time compensation under a plan approved by the State. Such plan shall provide that payments are made in accordance with the requirements under section 3306(v) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as added by section 2161(a).

“(2) Limitations on plans.—“(A) General payment limitations.—A short-time compensation plan approved by a State shall not permit the payment of short-time compensation to an individual by the State during a benefit year in excess of 26 times the amount of regular compensation (including dependents’ allowances) under the State law payable to such individual for a week of total unemployment.

“(B) Employer limitations.—A short-time compensation plan approved by a State shall not provide payments to an individual if such individual is employed by the participating employer on a seasonal, temporary, or intermittent basis.


“(3) Employer payment of costs.—Any short-time compensation plan entered into by an employer must provide that the employer will pay the State an amount equal to one-half of the amount of short-time compensation paid under such plan. Such amount shall be deposited in the State’s unemployment fund and shall not be used for purposes of calculating an employer’s contribution rate under section 3303(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.


“(c) Payments to States.—“(1) In general.—There shall be paid to each State with an agreement under this section an amount equal to—“(A) one-half of the amount of short-time compensation paid to individuals by the State pursuant to such agreement; and

“(B) any additional administrative expenses incurred by the State by reason of such agreement (as determined by the Secretary).


“(2) Terms of payments.—Payments made to a State under paragraph (1) shall be payable by way of reimbursement in such amounts as the Secretary estimates the State will be entitled to receive under this section for each calendar month, reduced or increased, as the case may be, by any amount by which the Secretary finds that the Secretary’s estimates for any prior calendar month were greater or less than the amounts which should have been paid to the State. Such estimates may be made on the basis of such statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the Secretary and the State agency of the State involved.

“(3) Funding.—There are appropriated, out of moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary for purposes of carrying out this section.

“(4) Certifications.—The Secretary shall from time to time certify to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment to each State the sums payable to such State under this section.


“(d) Applicability.—“(1) In general.—An agreement entered into under this section shall apply to weeks of unemployment—“(A) beginning on or after the date on which such agreement is entered into; and

“(B) ending on or before the date that is 2 years and 13 weeks after the date of the enactment of this Act [Feb. 22, 2012].


“(2) Two-year funding limitation.—States may receive payments under this section with respect to a total of not more than 104 weeks.


“(e) Special Rule.—If a State has entered into an agreement under this section and subsequently enacts a State law providing for the payment of short-time compensation under a short-time compensation program that meets the definition of such a program under section 3306(v) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as added by section 2161(a), the State—“(1) shall not be eligible for payments under this section for weeks of unemployment beginning after the effective date of such State law; and

“(2) subject to paragraphs (1)(B) and (2) of section 2162(b), shall be eligible to receive payments under section 2162 after the effective date of such State law.


“(f) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Labor.

“(2) State; state agency; state law.—The terms ‘State’, ‘State agency’, and ‘State law’ have the meanings given those terms in section 205 of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 [Pub. L. 91–373] (26 U.S.C. 3304 note).


