§ 7134. Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities Advisory Committee(a) Establishment(1) In generalThere is hereby established an advisory committee to be known as the “Safe and Drug Free Schools and Communities Advisory Committee” (referred to in this section as the “Advisory Committee”) to—(A) consult with the Secretary under subsection (b) of this section;

(B) coordinate Federal school- and community-based substance abuse and violence prevention programs and reduce duplicative research or services;

(C) develop core data sets and evaluation protocols for safe and drug-free school- and community-based programs;

(D) provide technical assistance and training for safe and drug-free school- and community-based programs;

(E) provide for the diffusion of scientifically based research to safe and drug-free school- and community-based programs; and

(F) review other regulations and standards developed under this subchapter.


(2) CompositionThe Advisory Committee shall be composed of representatives from—(A) the Department of Education;

(B) the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;

(C) the National Institute on Drug Abuse;

(D) the National Institute on Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse;

(E) the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention;

(F) the Center for Mental Health Services;

(G) the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention;

(H) the Office of National Drug Control Policy;

(I) State and local governments, including education agencies; and

(J) researchers and expert practitioners.


(3) ConsultationIn carrying out its duties under this section, the Advisory Committee shall annually consult with interested State and local coordinators of school- and community-based substance abuse and violence prevention programs and other interested groups.



(b) Programs(1) In generalFrom amounts made available under section 7103(2) of this title to carry out this subpart, the Secretary, in consultation with the Advisory Committee, shall carry out scientifically based research programs to strengthen the accountability and effectiveness of the State, chief executive officer’s, and national programs under this part.


(2) Grants, contracts or cooperative agreementsThe Secretary shall carry out paragraph (1) directly or through grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements with public and private entities and individuals or through agreements with other Federal agencies.


(3) CoordinationThe Secretary shall coordinate programs under this section with other appropriate Federal activities.


(4) ActivitiesActivities that may be carried out under programs funded under this section may include—(A) the provision of technical assistance and training, in collaboration with other Federal agencies utilizing their expertise and national and regional training systems, for Governors, State educational agencies and local educational agencies to support high quality, effective programs that—(i) provide a thorough assessment of the substance abuse and violence problem;

(ii) utilize objective data and the knowledge of a wide range of community members;

(iii) develop measurable goals and objectives; and

(iv) implement scientifically based research activities that have been shown to be effective and that meet identified needs;


(B) the provision of technical assistance and training to foster program accountability;

(C) the diffusion and dissemination of best practices and programs;

(D) the development of core data sets and evaluation tools;

(E) program evaluations;

(F) the provision of information on drug abuse education and prevention to the Secretary of Health and Human Services for dissemination by the clearinghouse for alcohol and drug abuse information established under section 290aa(d)(16) of title 42; and

(G) other activities that meet unmet needs related to the purpose of this part and that are undertaken in consultation with the Advisory Committee.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title IV, § 4124, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title IV, § 401, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1754.)

Termination of Advisory CommitteesAdvisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See section 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


