§ 287e–2. Reimbursement for goods and services provided by the United States to the United Nations(a) Requirement to obtain reimbursement(1) In generalExcept as provided in paragraph (2), the President shall seek and obtain in a timely fashion a commitment from the United Nations to provide reimbursement to the United States from the United Nations whenever the United States Government furnishes assistance pursuant to the provisions of law described in subsection (c) of this section—(A) to the United Nations when the assistance is designed to facilitate or assist in carrying out an assessed peacekeeping operation;

(B) for any United Nations peacekeeping operation that is authorized by the United Nations Security Council under Chapter VI or Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter and paid for by peacekeeping or regular budget assessment of the United Nations members; or

(C) to any country participating in any operation authorized by the United Nations Security Council under Chapter VI or Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter and paid for by peacekeeping assessments of United Nations members when the assistance is designed to facilitate or assist the participation of that country in the operation.


(2) Exceptions(A) In generalThe requirement in paragraph (1) shall not apply to—(i) goods and services provided to the United States Armed Forces;

(ii) assistance having a value of less than $3,000,000 per fiscal year per operation;

(iii) assistance furnished before November 29, 1999;

(iv) salaries and expenses of civilian police and other civilian and military monitors where United Nations policy is to require payment by contributing members for similar assistance to United Nations peacekeeping operations; or

(v) any assistance commitment made before November 29, 1999.


(B) Deployments of United States military forcesThe requirements of subsection (d)(1)(B) of this section shall not apply to the deployment of United States military forces when the President determines that such deployment is important to the security interests of the United States. The cost of such deployment shall be included in the data provided under section 2348d of this title.



(3) Form and amount(A) AmountThe amount of any reimbursement under this subsection shall be determined at the usual rate established by the United Nations.


(B) FormReimbursement under this subsection may include credits against the United States assessed contributions for United Nations peacekeeping operations, if the expenses incurred by any United States department or agency providing the assistance have first been reimbursed.




(b) Treatment of reimbursements(1) CreditThe amount of any reimbursement paid the United States under subsection (a) of this section shall be credited to the current applicable appropriation, fund, or account of the United States department or agency providing the assistance for which the reimbursement is paid.


(2) AvailabilityAmounts credited under paragraph (1) shall be merged with the appropriations, or with appropriations in the fund or account, to which credited and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, as the appropriations with which merged.



(c) Covered assistanceSubsection (a) of this section applies to assistance provided under the following provisions of law:(1) Sections 287d and 287d–1 of this title.

(2) Sections 2261, 2318(a)(1), 2321j, 2348a(c), and 2357 of this title.

(3) Any other provisions of law pursuant to which assistance is provided by the United States to carry out the mandate of an assessed United Nations peacekeeping operation.


(d) Waiver(1) Authority(A) In generalThe President may authorize the furnishing of assistance covered by this section without regard to subsection (a) of this section if the President determines, and so notifies in writing the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, that to do so is important to the security interests of the United States.


(B) Congressional notificationWhen exercising the authorities of subparagraph (A), the President shall notify the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 2394–1 of this title.



(2) Congressional reviewNotwithstanding a notice under paragraph (1) with respect to assistance covered by this section, subsection (a) of this section shall apply to the furnishing of the assistance if, not later than 15 calendar days after receipt of a notification under that paragraph, the Congress enacts a joint resolution disapproving the determination of the President contained in the notification.


(3) Senate proceduresAny joint resolution described in paragraph (2) shall be considered in the Senate in accordance with the provisions of section 601(b) of the International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976.



(e) Relationship to other reimbursement authorityNothing in this section shall preclude the President from seeking reimbursement for assistance covered by this section that is in addition to the reimbursement sought for the assistance under subsection (a) of this section.


(f) DefinitionIn this section, the term “assistance” includes personnel, services, supplies, equipment, facilities, and other assistance if such assistance is provided by the Department of Defense or any other United States Government agency.


(Dec. 20, 1945, ch. 583, § 10, as added Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(7) [div. A, title VII, § 723], Nov. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 1536, 1501A–463.)


References in TextSection 601(b) of the International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976, referred to in subsec. (d)(3), is section 601(b) of Pub. L. 94–329, title VI, June 30, 1976, 90 Stat. 765, which is not classified to the Code.


Change of Name
Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


