§ 564d. Management specialists(a) Employment; dutiesThe Secretary is authorized and directed to select and retain by contract, at the earliest practicable time after August 13, 1954 and after consultation with the tribe at a general meeting called for that purpose, the services of qualified management specialists who shall—(1) cause an appraisal to be made, within not more than twelve months after their employment, or as soon thereafter as practicable, of all tribal property showing its fair market value by practicable logging or other appropriate economic units;

(2) immediately after the appraisal of the tribal property and approval of the appraisal by the Secretary, give to each member whose name appears on the final roll of the tribe an opportunity to elect to withdraw from the tribe and have his interest in tribal property converted into money and paid to him, or to remain in the tribe and participate in the tribal management plan to be prepared pursuant to paragraph (5) of this subsection; in the case of members who are minors, persons declared incompetent by judicial proceedings, or deceased, the opportunity to make such election on their behalf shall be given to the person designated by the Secretary as the person best able to represent the interests of such member: Provided, however, That any member, or any heir or any devisee of any deceased member, for whom the Secretary has so designated a representative may (on his own behalf, through his natural guardian, or next friend) within one hundred and twenty days after receipt of written notice of such secretarial designation, contest the secretarial designation in any naturalization court for the area in which such member resides, by filing of a petition therein requesting designation of a named person other than the secretarial designee, and the burden shall thereupon devolve upon the Secretary to show cause why the member-designated representative should not represent the interests of such member, and the decision of such court shall be final and conclusive;

(3) determine and select the portion of the tribal property which if sold at the appraised value would provide sufficient funds to pay the members who elect to have their interests converted into money, arrange for the sale of such property, and distribute the proceeds of sale among the members entitled thereto: Provided, That any person whose name appears on the final roll of the tribe, or a guardian on behalf of any such person who is a minor or an incompetent, shall have the right to purchase, for his or its own account but not as an agent for others, any of such property in lots as offered for sale for not less than the highest offer received by competitive bid; any individual Indian purchaser who has elected to withdraw from the tribe may apply toward the purchase price up to 100 per centum of the amount estimated by the Secretary to be due him from the sale or taking of forest and marsh land pursuant to subsection (b), (d), and (f) of section 564w–1 of this title, and up to 75 per centum of the amount estimated by the Secretary to be due him from the conversion of his interest in other tribal property; and if more than one right is exercised to purchase the same property pursuant to this proviso the property shall be sold to one of such persons on the basis of competitive bids: Provided further, That when determining and selecting the portion of the tribal property to be sold, due consideration shall be given to the use of such property for grazing purposes by the members of both groups of the tribe;

(4) cause such studies and reports to be made as may be deemed necessary or desirable by the tribe or by the Secretary in connection with the termination of Federal supervision as provided for in this subchapter; and

(5) cause a plan to be prepared in form and content satisfactory to the members who elect to remain in the tribe and to the Secretary for the management of tribal property through a trustee, corporation, or other legal entity. If no plan that is satisfactory both to the members who elect to remain in the tribe and to the Secretary has been prepared six months before the time limit provided in section 564e(b) of this title the Secretary shall adopt a plan for managing the tribal property, subject to the provisions of section 564n of this title.


(b) Availability of funds for expenditures; reimbursement of tribal fundsSuch amounts of Klamath tribal funds as may be required for the purposes of this section shall be available for expenditure by the Secretary. In order to reimburse the tribe, in part, for expenditure of such tribal funds as the Secretary deems necessary for the purposes of carrying out the requirements of this section, there is authorized to be appropriated out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, an amount equal to one-half of such expenditures from tribal funds, or the sum of $550,000, whichever is the lesser amount.


(Aug. 13, 1954, ch. 732, § 5, 68 Stat. 718; Pub. L. 85–132, § 1(b), (d), (e), (g), Aug. 14, 1957, 71 Stat. 347, 348; Pub. L. 85–731, §§ 6–8, Aug. 23, 1958, 72 Stat. 819.)

Amendments1958—Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 85–731, §§ 6, 7, struck out first proviso requiring that funds payable to the withdrawing members be distributed as each $200,000 accumulates, and substituted “who has elected to withdraw from the tribe may apply toward the purchase price up to 100 per centum of the amount estimated by the Secretary to be due him from the sale or taking of forest and marsh lands pursuant to subsections (b), (d), and (f) of section 564w–1 of this title, and up to 75 per centum of the amount estimated by the Secretary to be due him from the conversion of his interest in other tribal property” for “may apply toward the purchase price all or any part of the sum due him from the conversion of his interest in tribal property” in second proviso.
Subsec. (a)(5). Pub. L. 85–731, § 8, inserted sentence to provide that if no plan is satisfactory both to the members who elect to remain in the tribe and to the Secretary, the Secretary shall adopt a management plan.
1957—Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 85–132, § 1(d), provided that the time of election to withdraw be given after the appraisal is approved by the Secretary, and provided for election on behalf of minors, incompetents, or deceased persons by designee of Secretary.
Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 85–132, § 1(e), in second proviso provided that any person whose name appears on the final roll of the tribe, may purchase for his own account, but not as an agent for others, any such property in lots as offered for sale, and provided that if more than one right is exercised to purchase the same property, it be sold on the basis of competitive bids.
Subsec. (a)(5). Pub. L. 85–132, § 1(g), substituted “members who elect to remain in the tribe” for “tribe”.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 85–132, § 1(b), provided for partial reimbursement of the tribe for expenditures of tribal funds under this section, authorization of appropriation of the lesser of amount equal to one-half of such expenditures, or $550,000, in lieu of former provisions which charged expenses incident to par. (3) to members who withdraw from tribe, charged expenses under pars. (4) and (5) to members who remain in tribe, and charged all other expenses under this section to interests of both groups of members.

Compensation for Services Pertaining to Enactment ProhibitedPub. L. 85–731, § 3, Aug. 23, 1958, 72 Stat. 818, provided that: “No funds distributed pursuant to section 5 of the Act of August 13, 1954, as amended [this section], to members who withdraw from the tribe shall be paid to any person as compensation for services pertaining to the enactment of said Act or amendments thereto [this subchapter] and any person making or receiving such payments shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be imprisoned for not more than six months and fined not more than $500.”


Termination of Contract With Management Specialists by Secretary of the InteriorPub. L. 85–731, § 4, Aug. 23, 1958, 72 Stat. 819, provided that: “The Secretary of the Interior is directed to terminate the contract between him and the management specialists by giving immediately the sixty-day notice required by paragraph 18 of such contract. When the contract is terminated, all of the functions of the management specialists under section 5 of the Act of August 13, 1954, as amended [this section], shall be performed by the Secretary.”


Provisions Requiring Election To Withdraw or Remain in Tribe Following Appraisal as UnaffectedPub. L. 85–731, § 5, Aug. 23, 1958, 72 Stat. 819, provided that: “Nothing in this Act shall in any way modify or repeal the provisions of subsection 5(a) of the Act of August 13, 1954, 68 Stat. 718), as amended [subsec. (a) of this section], providing for and requiring members of the Klamath Tribe to elect to withdraw from or remain in the tribe, following the appraisal of the tribal property.”


Cemeteries Within ReservationPub. L. 85–731, § 9, Aug. 23, 1958, 72 Stat. 819, provided that: “Except as provided below the provisions of the Act of August 13, 1954 (68 Stat. 718), as amended [this subchapter], shall not apply to cemeteries within the reservation. The Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to transfer title to such properties to any organization authorized by the tribe and approved by him. In the event such an organization is not formed by the tribe within eighteen months following enactment of this Act [August 23, 1958], the Secretary is directed to perfect the organization of a nonprofit entity empowered to accept title and maintain said cemeteries, any costs involved to be subject to the provisions of section 5(b) of said Act of August 13, 1954, as amended [subsec. (b) of this section].”


Deferral of Time for Sales of Tribal PropertySales of tribal property made pursuant to subsec. (a)(3) of this section or section 564e of this title as deferred until the adjournment of the second session of the Eighty-fifth Congress, see note set out under section 564e of this title.


