§ 6494. Close Up fellowship program(a) Program for middle school and secondary school students(1) Establishment(A) General authorityIn accordance with this subsection, the Secretary may make grants to the Close Up Foundation of Washington, District of Columbia, a nonpartisan, nonprofit foundation, for the purpose of assisting the Close Up Foundation in carrying out its programs of increasing civic responsibility and understanding of the Federal Government among middle school and secondary school students.


(B) Use of fundsGrants under this subsection shall be used only to provide financial assistance to economically disadvantaged students who participate in the programs described in subparagraph (A).


(C) Name of fellowshipsFinancial assistance received by students pursuant to this subsection shall be known as Close Up fellowships.



(2) Applications(A) Application requiredNo grant under this subsection may be made except upon an application at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(B) Contents of applicationEach application submitted under this paragraph shall contain assurances that—(i) Close Up fellowships provided under this subsection shall be made to economically disadvantaged middle school and secondary school students;

(ii) every effort shall be made to ensure the participation of students from rural, small town, and urban areas;

(iii) in awarding the fellowships to economically disadvantaged students, special consideration shall be given to the participation of those students with special educational needs, including students with disabilities, ethnic minority students, and students with migrant parents; and

(iv) the funds received under this subsection shall be properly disbursed.




(b) Program for middle school and secondary school teachers(1) Establishment(A) General authorityIn accordance with this subsection, the Secretary may make grants to the Close Up Foundation of Washington, District of Columbia, a nonpartisan, nonprofit foundation, for the purpose of assisting the Close Up Foundation in carrying out its programs of professional development for middle school and secondary school teachers and its programs to increase civic responsibility and understanding of the Federal Government among the teachers’ students.


(B) Use of fundsGrants under this subsection shall be used only to provide financial assistance to teachers who participate in the programs described in subparagraph (A).


(C) Name of fellowshipsFinancial assistance received by teachers pursuant to this subsection shall be known as Close Up fellowships.



(2) Applications(A) Application requiredNo grant under this subsection may be made except upon an application at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(B) Contents of applicationEach application submitted under this paragraph shall contain assurances that—(i) Close Up fellowships provided under this subsection shall be made only to a teacher who has worked with at least one student from such teacher’s school who participates in a program described in subsection (a)(1)(A) of this section;

(ii) no teacher shall receive more than one such fellowship in any fiscal year; and

(iii) the funds received under this subsection shall be properly disbursed.




(c) Programs for new Americans(1) Establishment(A) General authorityIn accordance with this subsection, the Secretary may make grants to the Close Up Foundation of Washington, District of Columbia, a nonpartisan, nonprofit foundation, for the purpose of assisting the Close Up Foundation in carrying out its programs of increasing civic responsibility and understanding of the Federal Government among economically disadvantaged middle school and secondary school recent immigrant students.


(B) DefinitionIn this subsection, the term “recent immigrant student” means a student who is a member of a family that immigrated to the United States within 5 years of the student’s participation in such a program.


(C) Use of fundsGrants under this subsection shall be used only to provide financial assistance to economically disadvantaged recent immigrant students and their teachers who participate in the programs described in subparagraph (A).


(D) Name of fellowshipsFinancial assistance received by students and teachers pursuant to this subsection shall be known as Close Up Fellowships for New Americans.



(2) Applications(A) Application requiredNo grant under this subsection may be made except upon an application at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(B) Contents of applicationEach application submitted under this paragraph shall contain assurances that—(i) Close Up Fellowships for New Americans shall be made to economically disadvantaged middle school and secondary school recent immigrant students;

(ii) every effort shall be made to ensure the participation of recent immigrant students from rural, small town, and urban areas;

(iii) in awarding the fellowships to economically disadvantaged recent immigrant students, special consideration shall be given to the participation of those students with special educational needs, including students with disabilities, students with migrant parents, and ethnic minority students;

(iv) fully describe the activities to be carried out with the proceeds of the grant made under paragraph (1); and

(v) the funds received under this subsection shall be properly disbursed.




(d) General provisions(1) Administrative provisions(A) AccountabilityIn consultation with the Secretary, the Close Up Foundation shall devise and implement procedures to measure the efficacy of the programs authorized in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section in attaining objectives that include the following:(i) Providing young people with an increased understanding of the Federal Government.

(ii) Heightening a sense of civic responsibility among young people.

(iii) Enhancing the skills of educators in teaching young people about civic responsibility, the Federal Government, and attaining citizenship competencies.


(B) General rulePayments under this section may be made in installments, in advance, or by way of reimbursement, with necessary adjustments on account of underpayments or overpayments.


(C) Audit ruleThe Comptroller General of the United States or any of the Comptroller General’s duly authorized representatives shall have access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, documents, papers, and records that are pertinent to any grant under this section.



(2) Continuation of awardsNotwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any person or entity that was awarded a grant under part G of title X before January 8, 2002, shall continue to receive funds in accordance with the terms of such award until the date on which the award period terminates under such terms.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1504, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1598.)


References in TextPart G of title X before January 8, 2002, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), means part G of title X of Pub. L. 89–10, as added by Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3841, which was classified generally to part G (§ 8161 et seq.) of subchapter X of this chapter, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 107–110, title X, § 1011(5)(A), Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1986.


