§ 1714. Awards for demonstration programs by local partnerships to coerce abstinence in chronic hard-drug users under community supervision through the use of drug testing and sanctions(a) Awards requiredThe Director shall make competitive awards to fund demonstration programs by eligible partnerships for the purpose of reducing the use of illicit drugs by chronic hard-drug users living in the community while under the supervision of the criminal justice system.


(b) Use of award amountsAward amounts received under this section shall be used—(1) to support the efforts of the agencies, organizations, and researchers included in the eligible partnership;

(2) to develop and field a drug testing and graduated sanctions program for chronic hard-drug users living in the community under criminal justice supervision; and

(3) to assist individuals described in subsection (a) by strengthening rehabilitation efforts through such means as job training, drug treatment, or other services.


(c) Eligible partnership definedIn this section, the term “eligible partnership” means a working group whose application to the Director—(1) identifies the roles played, and certifies the involvement of, two or more agencies or organizations, which may include—(A) State, local, or tribal agencies (such as those carrying out police, probation, prosecution, courts, corrections, parole, or treatment functions);

(B) Federal agencies (such as the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, and United States Attorney offices); and

(C) community-based organizations;


(2) includes a qualified researcher;

(3) includes a plan for using judicial or other criminal justice authority to administer drug tests to individuals described in subsection (a) at least twice a week, and to swiftly and certainly impose a known set of graduated sanctions for non-compliance with community-release provisions relating to drug abstinence (whether imposed as a pre-trial, probation, or parole condition or otherwise);

(4) includes a strategy for responding to a range of substance use and abuse problems and a range of criminal histories;

(5) includes a plan for integrating data infrastructure among the agencies and organizations included in the eligible partnership to enable seamless, real-time tracking of individuals described in subsection (a);

(6) includes a plan to monitor and measure the progress toward reducing the percentage of the population of individuals described in subsection (a) who, upon being summoned for a drug test, either fail to show up or who test positive for drugs.


(d) Reports to Congress(1) Interim reportNot later than June 1, 2009, the Director shall submit to Congress a report that identifies the best practices in reducing the use of illicit drugs by chronic hard-drug users, including the best practices identified through the activities funded under this section.


(2) Final reportNot later than June 1, 2010, the Director shall submit to Congress a report on the demonstration programs funded under this section, including on the matters specified in paragraph (1).



(e) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $4,900,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2009.


(Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title VII, § 716, as added Pub. L. 109–469, title XI, § 1119, Dec. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 3547.)

Repeal of SectionFor repeal of section on Sept. 30, 2010, see section 1712 of this title.


