§ 1704. Coordination with National Drug Control Program agencies in demand reduction, supply reduction, and State and local affairs(a) Access to information(1) In generalUpon the request of the Director, the head of any National Drug Control Program agency shall cooperate with and provide to the Director any statistics, studies, reports, and other information prepared or collected by the agency concerning the responsibilities of the agency under the National Drug Control Strategy that relate to—(A) drug control; or

(B) the manner in which amounts made available to that agency for drug control are being used by that agency.


(2) Protection of intelligence information(A) In generalThe authorities conferred on the Office and the Director by this chapter shall be exercised in a manner consistent with provisions of the National Security Act of 1947 [50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.]. The Director of National Intelligence shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to protect information provided pursuant to this chapter regarding intelligence sources and methods.


(B) Duties of DirectorThe Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall, to the maximum extent practicable in accordance with subparagraph (A), render full assistance and support to the Office and the Director.



(3) Required reports(A) Secretaries of the Interior and AgricultureNot later than July 1 of each year, the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior shall jointly submit to the Director and the appropriate congressional committees an assessment of the quantity of illegal drug cultivation and manufacturing in the United States on lands owned or under the jurisdiction of the Federal Government for the preceding year.


(B) Secretary of Homeland SecurityNot later than July 1 of each year, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Director and the appropriate congressional committees information for the preceding year regarding—(i) the number and type of seizures of drugs by each component of the Department of Homeland Security seizing drugs, as well as statistical information on the geographic areas of such seizures; and

(ii) the number of air and maritime patrol hours primarily dedicated to drug supply reduction missions undertaken by each component of the Department of Homeland Security.


(C) Secretary of DefenseThe Secretary of Defense shall, by July 1 of each year, submit to the Director and the appropriate congressional committees information for the preceding year regarding the number of air and maritime patrol hours primarily dedicated to drug supply reduction missions undertaken by each component of the Department of Defense.


(D) Attorney GeneralThe Attorney General shall, by July 1 of each year, submit to the Director and the appropriate congressional committees information for the preceding year regarding the number and type of—(i) arrests for drug violations;

(ii) prosecutions for drug violations by United States Attorneys; and

(iii) seizures of drugs by each component of the Department of Justice seizing drugs, as well as statistical information on the geographic areas of such seizures.




(b) Certification of policy changes to Director(1) In generalSubject to paragraph (2), the head of a National Drug Control Program agency shall, unless exigent circumstances require otherwise, notify the Director in writing regarding any proposed change in policies relating to the activities of that agency under the National Drug Control Program prior to implementation of such change. The Director shall promptly review such proposed change and certify to the head of that agency in writing whether such change is consistent with the National Drug Control Strategy.


(2) ExceptionIf prior notice of a proposed change under paragraph (1) is not practicable—(A) the head of the National Drug Control Program agency shall notify the Director of the proposed change as soon as practicable; and

(B) upon such notification, the Director shall review the change and certify to the head of that agency in writing whether the change is consistent with the National Drug Control Strategy.



(c) General Services AdministrationThe Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Director, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative support services as the Director may request.


(d) Accounting of funds expendedThe Director shall—(A) require the National Drug Control Program agencies to submit to the Director not later than February 1 of each year a detailed accounting of all funds expended by the agencies for National Drug Control Program activities during the previous fiscal year, and require such accounting to be authenticated by the Inspector General for each agency prior to submission to the Director; and

(B) submit to Congress not later than April 1 of each year the information submitted to the Director under subparagraph (A).


(Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title VII, § 705, Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–680; Pub. L. 109–469, title I, § 104, Dec. 29, 2006, 120 Stat. 3510.)

Repeal of SectionFor repeal of section on Sept. 30, 2010, see section 1712 of this title.


References in TextThe National Security Act of 1947, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(A), is act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, 61 Stat. 495, which was formerly classified principally to chapter 15 (§ 401 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense, prior to editorial reclassification in Title 50, and is now classified principally to chapter 44 (§ 3001 et seq.) of Title 50. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Amendments2006—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). Pub. L. 109–469, § 104(1), struck out “abuse” after “drug”.
Subsec. (a)(2)(A). Pub. L. 109–469, § 104(2), substituted “Director of National Intelligence” for “Director of Central Intelligence”.
Subsec. (a)(2)(B). Pub. L. 109–469, § 104(3), substituted “Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency” for “Director of Central Intelligence”.
Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 109–469, § 104(4), amended par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary of Agriculture shall annually submit to the Director an assessment of the acreage of illegal drug cultivation in the United States.”
Subsec. (b)(2)(B). Pub. L. 109–469, § 104(5), substituted “Strategy” for “Program”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 109–469, § 104(6), substituted “on” for “in”.


