§ 5961. Requirement for on-site managers(a) On-site manager requirementBefore obligating any Cooperative Threat Reduction funds for a project described in subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary of Defense shall appoint one on-site manager for that project. The manager shall be appointed from among employees of the Federal Government.


(b) Projects coveredSubsection (a) of this section applies to a project—(1) to be located in a state of the former Soviet Union;

(2) which involves dismantlement, destruction, or storage facilities, or construction of a facility; and

(3) with respect to which the total contribution by the Department of Defense is expected to exceed $50,000,000.


(c) Duties of on-site managerThe on-site manager appointed under subsection (a) of this section shall—(1) develop, in cooperation with representatives from governments of countries participating in the project, a list of those steps or activities critical to achieving the project’s disarmament or nonproliferation goals;

(2) establish a schedule for completing those steps or activities;

(3) meet with all participants to seek assurances that those steps or activities are being completed on schedule; and

(4) suspend United States participation in a project when a non-United States participant fails to complete a scheduled step or activity on time, unless directed by the Secretary of Defense to resume United States participation.


(d) Authority to manage more than one project(1) Subject to paragraph (2), an employee of the Federal Government may serve as on-site manager for more than one project, including projects at different locations.

(2) If such an employee serves as on-site manager for more than one project in a fiscal year, the total cost of the projects for that fiscal year may not exceed $150,000,000.


(e) Steps or activitiesSteps or activities referred to in subsection (c)(1) of this section are those activities that, if not completed, will prevent a project from achieving its disarmament or nonproliferation goals, including, at a minimum, the following:(1) Identification and acquisition of permits (as defined in section 5960 of this title).

(2) Verification that the items, substances, or capabilities to be dismantled, secured, or otherwise modified are available for dismantlement, securing, or modification.

(3) Timely provision of financial, personnel, management, transportation, and other resources.


(f) Notification to CongressIn any case in which the Secretary of Defense directs an on-site manager to resume United States participation in a project under subsection (c)(4) of this section, the Secretary shall concurrently notify Congress of such direction.


(g) Effective dateThis section shall take effect six months after November 24, 2003.


(Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title XIII, § 1305, Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1660.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004, and not as part of the Cooperative Threat Reduction Act of 1993 which comprises this chapter.


