§ 5821. American Business Centers(a) EstablishmentThe President is authorized and encouraged to establish American Business Centers in the independent states of the former Soviet Union receiving assistance under chapter 11 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 [22 U.S.C. 2295 et seq.] where the President determines that such centers can be cost-effective in promoting the objectives described in section 498 of that Act [22 U.S.C. 2295] and United States economic interests and in establishing commercial partnerships between the people of the United States and the peoples of the independent states.


(b) Environmental business centers and agribusiness centersFor purposes of this section, the term “American Business Centers” includes the following:(1) Environmental business centers in those independent states that offer promising market possibilities for the export of United States environmental goods and services. To the maximum extent practicable, these environmental business centers should be established as a component of other centers.

(2) Agribusiness centers that include the participation of private United States agribusinesses or agricultural cooperatives, private nonprofit organizations, State universities and land grant colleges, and financial institutions, that make appropriate contributions of equipment, materials, and personnel for the operation of such centers. The purposes of these agribusiness centers shall be—(A) to enhance the ability of farmers and other agribusiness practitioners in the independent states to better meet the needs of the people of the independent states;

(B) to assist the transition from a command and control system in agriculture to a free market system; and

(C) to facilitate the demonstration and use of United States agricultural equipment and technology.



(c) Additional policy guidanceTo the maximum extent possible, and consistent with the particular purposes of the specific types of centers, the President should direct that—(1) the American Business Centers established pursuant to this section place special emphasis on assistance to United States small- and medium-sized businesses to facilitate their entry into the commercial markets of the independent states;

(2) such centers offer office space, business facilities, and market analysis services to United States firms, trade associations, and State economic development offices on a user-fee basis that minimizes the cost of operating such centers;

(3) such centers serve as a repository for commercial, legal, and technical information, including environmental and export control information;

(4) such centers identify existing or potential counterpart businesses or organizations that may require specific technical coordination or assistance;

(5) such centers be established in several sites in the independent states; and

(6) host countries be asked to make appropriate contributions of real estate and personnel for the establishment and operation of such centers.


(d) Funding(1) Reimbursement agreementNot later than 90 days after October 24, 1992, the Administrator of the Agency for International Development shall conclude a reimbursement agreement with the Secretary of Commerce for the Department of Commerce’s services in establishing and operating American Business Centers pursuant to this section.


(2) Authorization of appropriationsOf the amount authorized to be appropriated to carry out chapter 11 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 [22 U.S.C. 2295 et seq.], up to $12,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, in addition to amounts otherwise available for such purpose.



(Pub. L. 102–511, title III, § 301, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3332.)


References in TextThe Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d)(2), is Pub. L. 87–195, Sept. 4, 1961, 75 Stat. 424, as amended. Chapter 11 of part I of the Act is classified generally to part XI (§ 2295 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 32 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2151 of this title and Tables.


Delegation of Functions
Functions of President under subsec. (a) delegated to Secretary of State except that functions of President under this section, insofar as relating to determinations and directives, delegated to Coordinator, see sections 2(b) and 3(a) of Ex. Ord. No. 12884, Dec. 1, 1993, 58 F.R. 64099, as amended, set out as a note under section 5812 of this title.


