§ 1771e. Jurisdiction over settlement lands; restraint on alienation(a) Limitation on Indian jurisdiction over settlement landsThe Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc., shall not have any jurisdiction over nontribal members and shall not exercise any jurisdiction over any part of the settlement lands in contravention of this subchapter, the civil regulatory and criminal laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the town of Gay Head, Massachusetts, and applicable Federal laws.


(b) Subsequent holder bound to same terms and conditionsAny tribe or tribal organization which acquires any settlement land or any other land that may now or in the future be owned by or held in trust for any Indian entity in the town of Gay Head, Massachusetts, from the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc. shall hold such beneficial interest to such land subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable to such lands when held by such council.


(c) Reservations of right and authority relating to settlement landsNo provision of this subchapter shall affect or otherwise impair—(1) any authority to impose a lien or temporary seizure on the settlement lands as provided in the State Implementing Act;

(2) the authority of the Secretary to approve leases in accordance with sections 415 to 415d of this title; or

(3) the legal capacity of the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc. to transfer the settlement lands to any tribal entity which may be organized as a successor in interest to Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc. or to transfer—(A) the right to use the settlement lands to its members,

(B) any easement for public or private purposes in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or the ordinances of the town of Gay Head, Massachusetts, or

(C) title to the West Basin Strip to the town of Gay Head, Massachusetts, pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement.



(d) Exemption from State assessmentAny land held in trust by the Secretary for the benefit of the Wampanoag Tribal Council of Gay Head, Inc. shall be exempt from taxation or lien or “in lieu of payment” or other assessment by the State or any political subdivision of the State to the extent provided by the Settlement Agreement: Provided, however, That such taxation or lien or “in lieu of payment” or other assessment will only apply to lands which are zoned and utilized as commercial: Provided further, That this section shall not be interpreted as restricting the Tribe from entering into an agreement with the town of Gay Head to reimburse such town for the delivery of specific public services on the tribal lands.


(Pub. L. 100–95, § 7, Aug. 18, 1987, 101 Stat. 707.)


References in TextSections 415 to 415d of this title, referred to in subsec. (c)(2), was in the original “the Act entitled ‘An Act to authorize the leasing of restricted Indian lands for public, religious, educational, recreational, residential, business, and other purposes requiring the grant of long-term leases’, approved August 9, 1955 (25 U.S.C. 415 et seq.)”, which enacted sections 415 to 415d of this title and amended section 396 of this title.


