“SEC. 5210. USE OF FUNDS.“(a) Outreach and Public Relations Limitation.—“(1) In general.—For each fiscal year, not more than $5,000,000 of the funds made available to carry out this subtitle shall be used for intelligent transportation system outreach, public relations, displays, scholarships, tours, and brochures.

“(2) Applicability.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply to intelligent transportation system training or the publication or distribution of research findings, technical guidance, or similar documents.


“(b) Infrastructure Development.—Funds made available to carry out this subtitle for operational tests and deployment projects—“(1) shall be used primarily for the development of intelligent transportation system infrastructure; and

“(2) to the maximum extent practicable, shall not be used for the construction of physical highway and transit infrastructure unless the construction is incidental and critically necessary to the implementation of an intelligent transportation system project.


“(c) Life Cycle Cost Analysis and Financing and Operations Plan.—The Secretary shall require an applicant for funds made available under sections 5208 and 5209 to submit to the Secretary—“(1) an analysis of the life-cycle costs of operation and maintenance of intelligent transportation system elements, if the total initial capital costs of the elements exceed $3,000,000; and

“(2) a multiyear financing and operations plan that describes how the project will be cost-effectively operated and maintained.


“(d) Use of Innovative Financing.—“(1) In general.—The Secretary may use up to 25 percent of the funds made available to carry out this subtitle to make available loans, lines of credit, and loan guarantees for projects that are eligible for assistance under this subtitle and that have significant intelligent transportation system elements.

“(2) Consistency with other law.—Credit assistance described in paragraph (1) shall be made available in a manner consistent with the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 1998 [see section 1501 of Pub. L. 105–178, set out as a Short Title of 1998 Amendment note under section 101 of this title].


