§ 7424. Applications(a) Application requiredEach local educational agency that desires to receive a grant under this subpart shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(b) Comprehensive program requiredEach application submitted under subsection (a) of this section shall include a description of a comprehensive program for meeting the needs of Indian children served by the local educational agency, including the language and cultural needs of the children, that—(1) describes how the comprehensive program will offer programs and activities to meet the culturally related academic needs of American Indian and Alaska Native students;

(2)(A) is consistent with the State and local plans submitted under other provisions of this chapter; and

(B) includes academic content and student academic achievement goals for such children, and benchmarks for attaining such goals, that are based on the challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards adopted under subchapter I of this chapter for all children;


(3) explains how Federal, State, and local programs, especially programs carried out under subchapter I of this chapter, will meet the needs of such students;

(4) demonstrates how funds made available under this subpart will be used for activities described in section 7425 of this title;

(5) describes the professional development opportunities that will be provided, as needed, to ensure that—(A) teachers and other school professionals who are new to the Indian community are prepared to work with Indian children; and

(B) all teachers who will be involved in programs assisted under this subpart have been properly trained to carry out such programs; and


(6) describes how the local educational agency—(A) will periodically assess the progress of all Indian children enrolled in the schools of the local educational agency, including Indian children who do not participate in programs assisted under this subpart, in meeting the goals described in paragraph (2);

(B) will provide the results of each assessment referred to in subparagraph (A) to—(i) the committee described in subsection (c)(4) of this section; and

(ii) the community served by the local educational agency; and


(C) is responding to findings of any previous assessments that are similar to the assessments described in subparagraph (A).



(c) AssurancesEach application submitted under subsection (a) of this section shall include assurances that—(1) the local educational agency will use funds received under this subpart only to supplement the funds that, in the absence of the Federal funds made available under this subpart, such agency would make available for the education of Indian children, and not to supplant such funds;

(2) the local educational agency will prepare and submit to the Secretary such reports, in such form and containing such information, as the Secretary may require to—(A) carry out the functions of the Secretary under this subpart; and

(B) determine the extent to which activities carried out with funds provided to the local educational agency under this subpart are effective in improving the educational achievement of Indian students served by such agency;


(3) the program for which assistance is sought—(A) is based on a comprehensive local assessment and prioritization of the unique educational and culturally related academic needs of the American Indian and Alaska Native students for whom the local educational agency is providing an education;

(B) will use the best available talents and resources, including individuals from the Indian community; and

(C) was developed by such agency in open consultation with parents of Indian children and teachers, and, if appropriate, Indian students from secondary schools, including through public hearings held by such agency to provide to the individuals described in this subparagraph a full opportunity to understand the program and to offer recommendations regarding the program; and


(4) the local educational agency developed the program with the participation and written approval of a committee—(A) that is composed of, and selected by—(i) parents of Indian children in the local educational agency’s schools;

(ii) teachers in the schools; and

(iii) if appropriate, Indian students attending secondary schools of the agency;


(B) a majority of whose members are parents of Indian children;

(C) that has set forth such policies and procedures, including policies and procedures relating to the hiring of personnel, as will ensure that the program for which assistance is sought will be operated and evaluated in consultation with, and with the involvement of, parents of the children, and representatives of the area, to be served;

(D) with respect to an application describing a schoolwide program in accordance with section 7425(c) of this title, that has—(i) reviewed in a timely fashion the program; and

(ii) determined that the program will not diminish the availability of culturally related activities for American Indian and Alaska Native students; and


(E) that has adopted reasonable bylaws for the conduct of the activities of the committee and abides by such bylaws.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title VII, § 7114, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title VII, § 701, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1910.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 7424, Pub. L. 89–10, title VII, § 7114, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3721, related to comprehensive school grants, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110. See section 6913 of this title.


