§ 3424. Federal Interagency Committee on Education(a) Establishment and functionThere is established a Federal Interagency Committee on Education (hereafter referred to in this section as the “Committee”). The Committee shall assist the Secretary in providing a mechanism to assure that the procedures and actions of the Department and other Federal departments and agencies are fully coordinated.


(b) Coordination of Federal programs, policies and practicesThe Committee shall study and make recommendations for assuring effective coordination of Federal programs, policies, and administrative practices affecting education, including—(1) consistent administration and development of policies and practices among Federal agencies in the conduct of related programs;

(2) full and effective communication among Federal agencies to avoid unnecessary duplication of activities and repetitive collection of data;

(3) full and effective cooperation with the Secretary on such studies and analyses as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter;

(4) coordination of related programs to assure that recipients of Federal assistance are efficiently and responsively served; and

(5) full and effective involvement and participation of students and parents in Federal education programs.


(c) MembershipThe Committee shall be composed of the Secretary, who shall chair the Committee, and senior policy making officials from those Federal agencies, commissions, and boards that the President may find appropriate.


(d) Designation of additional persons to attend meetingsThe Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the Executive Director of the Domestic Policy Staff may each designate a staff member to attend meetings of the Committee.


(e) Federal vocational education and training programs study; reportThe Committee shall conduct a study concerning the progress, effectiveness, and accomplishments of Federal vocational education and training programs, and the need for improved coordination between all federally funded vocational education and training programs. The Committee shall report the findings of such study to the Secretary and the Congress within two years of October 17, 1979.


(f) Required meetings; establishment of subcommitteesThe Committee shall meet at least twice each year. The Secretary may establish subcommittees of the Committee to facilitate coordination in important areas of Federal activity.


(g) Support assistanceThe Secretary and the head of each agency represented on the Committee under subsection (c) of this section shall furnish necessary assistance to the Committee.


(Pub. L. 96–88, title II, § 217, formerly § 214, Oct. 17, 1979, 93 Stat. 676; renumbered § 215, Pub. L. 101–392, title VI, § 602(a)(2), Sept. 25, 1990, 104 Stat. 840; renumbered § 217, Pub. L. 103–382, title III, § 372(1), Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3977.)

Termination of Advisory CommitteesAdvisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See section 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


