§ 7217a. Participation of children enrolled in private schools(a) Participation on equitable basis(1) In generalTo the extent consistent with the number of children in the school district of a local educational agency that is eligible to receive funds under this part, or that serves the area in which a program assisted under this part is located, who are enrolled in private nonprofit elementary schools and secondary schools, or, with respect to instructional or personnel training programs funded by the State educational agency from funds made available for State educational agency use, the local educational agency, after consultation with appropriate private school officials—(A) shall provide, as may be necessary, for the benefit of such children in such schools—(i) secular, neutral, and nonideological services, materials, and equipment, including the participation of the teachers of such children (and other educational personnel serving such children) in training programs; and

(ii) the repair, minor remodeling, or construction of public facilities (consistent with subsection (c) of this section); or


(B) if such services, materials, and equipment are not feasible or necessary in one or more such private schools, as determined by the local educational agency after consultation with the appropriate private school officials, shall provide such other arrangements as will assure equitable participation of such children in the purposes and benefits of this part.


(2) Other provisions for servicesIf no program is carried out under paragraph (1) in the school district of a local educational agency, the State educational agency shall make arrangements, such as through contracts with nonprofit agencies or organizations, under which children in private schools in the district are provided with services and materials to the same extent as would have occurred if the local educational agency had received funds under this part.


(3) Application of requirementsThe requirements of this section relating to the participation of children, teachers, and other personnel serving such children shall apply to programs carried out under this part by a State educational agency or local educational agency, whether directly or through grants to, or contracts with, other public or private agencies, institutions, or organizations.



(b) Equal expenditures(1) In generalExpenditures for programs under subsection (a) of this section shall be equal (consistent with the number of children to be served) to expenditures for programs under this part for children enrolled in the public schools of the local educational agency.


(2) Concentrated programsTaking into account the needs of the individual children and other factors that relate to the expenditures referred to in paragraph (1), and when funds available to a local educational agency under this part are used to concentrate programs on a particular group, attendance area, or grade or age level, children enrolled in private schools who are included within the group, attendance area, or grade or age level selected for such concentration shall, after consultation with the appropriate private school officials, be assured equitable participation in the purposes and benefits of such programs.



(c) Administrative requirements(1) Funds and propertyThe control of funds provided under this part, and title to materials, equipment, and property repaired, remodeled, or constructed with such funds, shall be in a public agency for the uses and purposes provided in this part, and a public agency shall administer such funds and property.


(2) Provision of servicesServices provided under this part shall be provided by employees of a public agency or through contract by such a public agency with a person, association, agency, or corporation that, in the provision of such services, is independent of the private school and of any religious organizations, and such employment or contract shall be under the control and supervision of such a public agency. The funds provided under this part shall not be commingled with State or local funds.



(d) Waiver(1) State prohibitionIf a State educational agency or local educational agency is prohibited, by reason of any provision of law, from providing for the participation in programs of children enrolled in private elementary schools and secondary schools as required by subsections (a) through (c) of this section, the Secretary shall waive such requirements for the agency involved and shall arrange for the provision of services to such children through arrangements that shall be subject to the requirements of this section.


(2) Failure to complyIf the Secretary determines that a State educational agency or a local educational agency has substantially failed, or is unwilling, to provide for the participation on an equitable basis of children enrolled in private elementary schools and secondary schools as required by subsections (a) through (c) of this section, the Secretary may waive such requirements and shall arrange for the provision of services to such children through arrangements that shall be subject to the requirements of this section.



(e) Withholding of allotment or allocationPending final resolution of any investigation or complaint that could result in a waiver under subsection (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section, the Secretary may withhold from the allotment or allocation of the affected State educational agency or local educational agency the amount estimated by the Secretary to be necessary to pay the cost of services to be provided by the Secretary under such subsection.


(f) Duration of determinationAny determination by the Secretary under this section shall continue in effect until the Secretary determines that there will no longer be any failure or inability on the part of the State educational agency or local educational agency to meet the requirements of subsections (a) through (c) of this section.


(g) Payment from State allotmentWhen the Secretary arranges for services under subsection (d) of this section, the Secretary shall, after consultation with the appropriate public school and private school officials, pay the cost of such services, including the administrative costs of arranging for those services, from the appropriate allotment of the State educational agency under this part.


(h) Review of determination(1) Written objectionsThe Secretary shall not take any final action under this section until the State educational agency and the local educational agency affected by such action have had an opportunity, for not less than 45 days after receiving written notice thereof, to submit written objections and to appear before the Secretary or the Secretary’s designee to show cause why that action should not be taken.


(2) Court actionIf a State educational agency or local educational agency is dissatisfied with the Secretary’s final action after a proceeding under paragraph (1), such agency may, not later than 60 days after notice of such action, file with the United States court of appeals for the circuit in which such State is located a petition for review of that action. A copy of the petition shall be transmitted by the clerk of the court to the Secretary. The Secretary thereupon shall file in the court the record of the proceedings on which the Secretary based the action, as provided in section 2112 of title 28.


(3) Remand to SecretaryThe findings of fact by the Secretary with respect to a proceeding under paragraph (1), if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive. The court, for good cause shown, may remand the case to the Secretary to take further evidence and the Secretary may make new or modified findings of fact and may modify the Secretary’s previous action, and shall file in the court the record of the further proceedings. Such new or modified findings of fact shall likewise be conclusive, if supported by substantial evidence.


(4) Court reviewUpon the filing of a petition under paragraph (2), the court shall have jurisdiction to affirm the action of the Secretary or to set such action aside, in whole or in part. The judgment of the court shall be subject to review by the Supreme Court upon certiorari or certification, as provided in section 1254 of title 28.



(i) Prior determinationAny bypass determination by the Secretary under title VI (as such title was in effect on the day preceding January 8, 2002) shall, to the extent consistent with the purposes of this part, apply to programs under this part.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5142, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1785.)


References in TextTitle VI (as such title was in effect on the day preceding January 8, 2002), referred to in subsec. (i), means title VI of Pub. L. 89–10, as added by Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3707, as amended, which was classified generally to subchapter VI (§ 7301 et seq.) of this chapter prior to the general amendment of subchapter VI by Pub. L. 107–110, title VI, § 601, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1873.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 5142 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 3222 of this title, prior to the general amendment of Pub. L. 89–10 by Pub. L. 103–382.


