§ 80r–5. Educational and liaison programs(a) In general(1) Programs authorizedThe Director of the Museum may carry out educational and liaison programs in support of the goals of the Museum.


(2) Specific activities describedIn carrying out this section, the Director shall—(A) carry out educational programs relating to African American life, art, history, and culture, including—(i) programs using digital, electronic, and interactive technologies; and

(ii) programs carried out in collaboration with elementary schools, secondary schools, and postsecondary schools; and


(B) consult with the Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services concerning the grant and scholarship programs carried out under subsection (b) of this section.



(b) Grant and scholarship programs(1) In generalIn consultation with the Council and the Director of the Museum, the Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services shall establish—(A) a grant program with the purpose of improving operations, care of collections, and development of professional management at African American museums;

(B) a grant program with the purpose of providing internship and fellowship opportunities at African American museums;

(C) a scholarship program with the purpose of assisting individuals who are pursuing careers or carrying out studies in the arts, humanities, and sciences in the study of African American life, art, history, and culture;

(D) in cooperation with other museums, historical societies, and educational institutions, a grant program with the purpose of promoting the understanding of modern-day practices of slavery throughout the world; and

(E) a grant program under which an African-American museum (including a nonprofit education organization the primary mission of which is to promote the study of African-American diaspora) may use the funds provided under the grant to increase an endowment fund established by the museum (or organization) as of May 1, 2003, for the purposes of—(i) enhancing educational programming; and

(ii) maintaining and operating traveling educational exhibits.



(2) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to the Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services to carry out this subsection—(A) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2004; and

(B) such sums as are necessary for each fiscal year thereafter.



(Pub. L. 108–184, § 7, Dec. 16, 2003, 117 Stat. 2679.)
