§ 7253e. General provisions(a) Participation of private school children and teachersIn making grants and entering into contracts under this subpart, the Secretary shall ensure, where appropriate, that provision is made for the equitable participation of students and teachers in private nonprofit elementary schools and secondary schools, including the participation of teachers and other personnel in professional development programs serving such students.


(b) Review, dissemination, and evaluationThe Secretary shall—(1) use a peer review process in reviewing applications under this subpart;

(2) ensure that information on the activities and results of programs and projects funded under this subpart is disseminated to appropriate State educational agencies, local educational agencies, and other appropriate organizations, including nonprofit private organizations; and

(3) evaluate the effectiveness of programs under this subpart in accordance with section 7941 of this title, in terms of the impact on students traditionally served in separate gifted and talented programs and on other students, and submit the results of such evaluation to Congress not later than 2 years after January 8, 2002.


(c) Program operationsThe Secretary shall ensure that the programs under this subpart are administered within the Department by a person who has recognized professional qualifications and experience in the field of the education of gifted and talented students and who shall—(1) administer and coordinate the programs authorized under this subpart;

(2) serve as a focal point of national leadership and information on the educational needs of gifted and talented students and the availability of educational services and programs designed to meet such needs;

(3) assist the Assistant Secretary for Educational Research and Improvement in identifying research priorities that reflect the needs of gifted and talented students; and

(4) shall 11 So in original. The word “shall” probably should not appear. disseminate, and consult on, the information developed under this subpart with other offices within the Department.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5466, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1828.)
