“Sec. 11. (a) If the Administrator finds at any time that a program of job training previously approved by the Administrator for the purposes of this Act thereafter fails to meet any of the requirements established under this Act, the Administrator may immediately disapprove further participation by veterans in that program. The Administrator shall provide to the employer concerned, and to each veteran participating in the employer’s program, a statement of the reasons for, and an opportunity for a hearing with respect to, such disapproval. The employer and each such veteran shall be notified of such disapproval, the reasons for such disapproval, and the opportunity for a hearing. Notification shall be by a certified or registered letter, and a return receipt shall be secured.

“(b)(1) If the Administrator determines that the rate of veterans’ successful completion of an employer’s programs of job training previously approved by the Administrator for the purposes of this Act is disproportionately low because of deficiencies in the quality of such programs, the Administrator shall disapprove participation in such programs on the part of veterans who had not begun such participation on the date that the employer is notified of the disapproval. In determining whether any such rate is disproportionately low because of such deficiencies, the Administrator shall take into account appropriate data, including—“(A) the quarterly data provided by the Secretary with respect to the number of veterans who receive counseling in connection with training under this Act, are referred to employers under this Act, participate in job training under this Act, complete such training or do not complete such training, and the reasons for noncompletion; and

“(B) data compiled through the particular employer’s compliance surveys.


“(2) With respect to a disapproval under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall provide to the employer concerned the kind of statement, opportunity for hearing, and notice described in subsection (a).

“(3) A disapproval under paragraph (1) shall remain in effect until such time as the Administrator determines that adequate remedial action has been taken.


