“SEC. 3134. ANNUAL REPORT.“(a) In General.—Not later than September 1 of each year through 2012, the President, in consultation with relevant Federal departments and agencies, shall submit to Congress a report on the security of nuclear weapons and related equipment and formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material outside of the United States.

“(b) Elements.—The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following:“(1) A section on the programs for the security and accounting of nuclear weapons and the elimination, removal, and security and accounting of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material, established under section 3132(b) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (50 U.S.C. 2569(b)), which shall include the following:“(A) A survey of the facilities and sites worldwide that contain nuclear weapons or related equipment, or formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material.

“(B) A list of such facilities and sites determined to be of the highest priority for security and accounting of nuclear weapons and related equipment, or the elimination, removal, or security and accounting of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material, taking into account risk of theft from such facilities and sites, and organized by level of priority.

“(C) A prioritized plan, including measurable milestones, metrics, estimated timetables, and estimated costs of implementation, on the following:“(i) The security and accounting of nuclear weapons and related equipment and the elimination, removal, or security and accounting of formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material at such facilities and sites worldwide.

“(ii) Ensuring that security upgrades and accounting reforms implemented at such facilities and sites worldwide, using the financial and technical assistance of the United States, are effectively sustained after such assistance ends.

“(iii) The role that international agencies and the international community have committed to play, together with a plan for securing international contributions.


“(D) An assessment of the progress made in implementing the plan described in subparagraph (C), including a description of the efforts of foreign governments to secure and account for nuclear weapons and related equipment and to eliminate, remove, or secure and account for formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material.


“(2) A section on efforts to establish and implement the international nuclear security standard described in section 3133(b) and related policies.


“(c) Form.—The report may be submitted in classified form but shall include a detailed unclassified summary.”

