§ 458aaa–13. Reports(a) Annual report(1) In generalNot later than January 1 of each year after August 18, 2000, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives a written report regarding the administration of this part.


(2) AnalysisThe report under paragraph (1) shall include a detailed analysis of the level of need being presently funded or unfunded for each Indian tribe, either directly by the Secretary, under self-determination contracts under part A of this subchapter, or under compacts and funding agreements authorized under this subchapter. In compiling reports pursuant to this section, the Secretary may not impose any reporting requirements on participating Indian tribes or tribal organizations, not otherwise provided in this subchapter.



(b) ContentsThe report under subsection (a) of this section shall—(1) be compiled from information contained in funding agreements, annual audit reports, and data of the Secretary regarding the disposition of Federal funds; and

(2) identify—(A) the relative costs and benefits of self-governance;

(B) with particularity, all funds that are specifically or functionally related to the provision by the Secretary of services and benefits to self-governance Indian tribes and their members;

(C) the funds transferred to each self-governance Indian tribe and the corresponding reduction in the Federal bureaucracy;

(D) the funding formula for individual tribal shares of all headquarters funds, together with the comments of affected Indian tribes or tribal organizations, developed under subsection (c) of this section; and

(E) amounts expended in the preceding fiscal year to carry out inherent Federal functions, including an identification of those functions by type and location;


(3) contain a description of the method or methods (or any revisions thereof) used to determine the individual tribal share of funds controlled by all components of the Indian Health Service (including funds assessed by any other Federal agency) for inclusion in self-governance compacts or funding agreements;

(4) before being submitted to Congress, be distributed to the Indian tribes for comment (with a comment period of no less than 30 days, beginning on the date of distribution); and

(5) include the separate views and comments of the Indian tribes or tribal organizations.


(c) Report on fund distribution methodNot later than 180 days after August 18, 2000, the Secretary shall, after consultation with Indian tribes, submit a written report to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate that describes the method or methods used to determine the individual tribal share of funds controlled by all components of the Indian Health Service (including funds assessed by any other Federal agency) for inclusion in self-governance compacts or funding agreements.


(Pub. L. 93–638, title V, § 514, as added Pub. L. 106–260, § 4, Aug. 18, 2000, 114 Stat. 728.)


References in TextPart A of this subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), was in the original “title I”, meaning title I of Pub. L. 93–638, known as the Indian Self-Determination Act, which is classified principally to part A (§ 450f et seq.) of this subchapter. For complete classification of title I to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 450 of this title and Tables.
This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 93–638, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2203, known as the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, which is classified principally to this subchapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 450 of this title and Tables.


Change of Name
Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


