§ 677g. Membership rolls of full-blood and mixed-blood members; preparation and initial publication; appeal from inclusion or omission from rolls; finality of determination; final publication; inheritable interest; future membership
The tribe shall have a period of thirty days from August 27, 1954 in which to prepare and submit to the Secretary a proposed roll of the full-blood members of the tribe, and a proposed roll of the mixed-blood members of the tribe, living on August 27, 1954. If the tribe fails to submit such proposed rolls within the time specified in this subchapter, the Secretary shall prepare such proposed rolls for the tribe. Said proposed rolls shall be published in the Federal Register, and in a newspaper of general circulation in each of the counties of Uintah and Duchesne in the State of Utah. Any person claiming membership rights in the tribe, or an interest in its assets, or a representative of the Secretary on behalf of any such person, within sixty days from the date of publication in the Federal Register, or in either of the papers of general circulation, as hereinbefore provided, whichever publication date is last, may file an appeal with the Secretary contesting the inclusion or omission of the name of any person on or from either of such proposed rolls. The Secretary shall review such appeals and his decisions thereon shall be final and conclusive. After disposition of all such appeals to the Secretary, and after all transfers have been made pursuant to section 677c of this title the roll of the full-blood members of the tribe, and the roll of the mixed-blood members of the tribe, shall be published in the Federal Register, and such rolls shall be final for the purposes of this subchapter, but said sections shall not be construed as granting any inheritable interest in tribal assets to full-blood members of the tribe or as preventing future membership in the tribe, after August 27, 1954, in the manner provided in the constitution and bylaws of the tribe.
(Aug. 27, 1954, ch. 1009, § 8, 68 Stat. 869; Aug. 2, 1956, ch. 880, § 2, 70 Stat. 936.)

Amendments1956—Act Aug. 2, 1956, prohibited constructions of this subchapter granting inheritable interest in tribal assets to full-blood members of the tribe or preventing future membership in the tribe in accordance with its constitution and bylaws.


