§ 1300i–3. Hoopa-Yurok Settlement Fund(a) Establishment(1) There is hereby established the Hoopa-Yurok Settlement Fund. Upon enactment of this subchapter, the Secretary shall cause all the funds in the escrow funds, together with all accrued income thereon, to be deposited into the Settlement Fund.

(2) Until the distribution is made to the Hoopa Valley Tribe pursuant to section 11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection”. (c), the Secretary may distribute to the Hoopa Valley Tribe, pursuant to section 123c of this title, not to exceed $3,500,000 each fiscal year out of the income or principal of the Settlement Fund for tribal, non per capita purposes: Provided, however, That the Settlement Fund apportioned under subsections (c) and (d) of this section shall be calculated without regard to this subparagraph, but any amounts distributed under this subparagraph shall be deducted from the payment to the Hoopa Valley Tribe pursuant to subsection (c) of this section.

(3) Until the distribution is made to the Yurok Tribe pursuant to section 1 (d), the Secretary may, in addition to providing Federal funding, distribute to the Yurok Transition Team, pursuant to section 123c of this title, not to exceed $500,000 each fiscal year out of the income and principal of the Settlement Fund for tribal, non per capita purposes: Provided, however, That the Settlement Fund apportioned under subsections (c) and (d) of this section shall be calculated without regard to this subparagraph, but any amounts distributed under this subparagraph shall be deducted from the payment to the Yurok Tribe pursuant to subsection (d) of this section.


(b) Distribution; investmentThe Secretary shall make distribution from the Settlement Fund as provided in this subchapter and, pending payments under section 1300i–5 of this title and dissolution of the fund as provided in section 1300i–6 of this title, shall invest and administer such fund as Indian trust funds pursuant to section 162a of this title.


(c) Hoopa Valley Tribe portionEffective with the publication of the option election date pursuant to section 1300i–5(a)(4) of this title, the Secretary shall immediately pay out of the Settlement Fund into a trust account for the benefit of the Hoopa Valley Tribe a percentage of the Settlement Fund which shall be determined by dividing the number of enrolled members of the Hoopa Valley Tribe as of the date of the promulgation of the Settlement Roll, including any persons enrolled pursuant to section 1300i–5 of this title, by the sum of the number of such enrolled Hoopa Valley tribal members and the number of persons on the Settlement Roll.


(d) Yurok Tribe portionEffective with the publication of the option election date pursuant to section 1300i–5(a)(4) of this title, the Secretary shall pay out of the Settlement Fund into a trust account for the benefit of the Yurok Tribe a percentage of the Settlement Fund which shall be determined by dividing the number of persons on the Settlement Roll electing the Yurok Tribal Membership Option pursuant to section 1300i–5(c) of this title by the sum of the number of the enrolled Hoopa Valley tribal members established pursuant to subsection (c) of this section and the number of persons on the Settlement Roll, less any amount paid out of the Settlement Fund pursuant to section 1300i–5(c)(3) of this title.


(e) Federal shareThere is hereby authorized to be appropriated the sum of $10,000,000 which shall be deposited into the Settlement Fund after the payments are made pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of this section and section 1300i–5(c) of this title. The Settlement Fund, including the amount deposited pursuant to this subsection and all income earned subsequent to the payments made pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of this section and section 1300i–5(c) of this title, shall be available to make the payments authorized by section 1300i–5(d) of this title.


(Pub. L. 100–580, § 4, Oct. 31, 1988, 102 Stat. 2927.)
