§ 3305. Programs for corrections education and other institutionalized individuals(a) Program authorizedFrom funds made available under section 3302(a)(1) of this title for a fiscal year, each eligible agency shall carry out corrections education and education for other institutionalized individuals.


(b) Uses of fundsThe funds described in subsection (a) shall be used for the cost of educational programs for criminal offenders in correctional institutions and for other institutionalized individuals, including academic programs for—(1) adult education and literacy activities;

(2) special education, as determined by the eligible agency;

(3) secondary school credit;

(4) integrated education and training;

(5) career pathways;

(6) concurrent enrollment;

(7) peer tutoring; and

(8) transition to re-entry initiatives and other postrelease services with the goal of reducing recidivism.


(c) PriorityEach eligible agency that is using assistance provided under this section to carry out a program for criminal offenders within a correctional institution shall give priority to serving individuals who are likely to leave the correctional institution within 5 years of participation in the program.


(d) ReportIn addition to any report required under section 3141 of this title, each eligible agency that receives assistance provided under this section shall annually prepare and submit to the Secretary a report on the progress, as described in section 3141 of this title, of the eligible agency with respect to the programs and activities carried out under this section, including the relative rate of recidivism for the criminal offenders served.


(e) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Correctional institutionThe term “correctional institution” means any—(A) prison;

(B) jail;

(C) reformatory;

(D) work farm;

(E) detention center; or

(F) halfway house, community-based rehabilitation center, or any other similar institution designed for the confinement or rehabilitation of criminal offenders.


(2) Criminal offenderThe term “criminal offender” means any individual who is charged with or convicted of any criminal offense.



(Pub. L. 113–128, title II, § 225, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1617.)

Effective DateSection effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 [probably July 1, 2015], see section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128, set out as a note under section 3101 of this title.


