§ 9567b. Duties(a) General dutiesThe Special Education Research Center shall carry out research activities under this part consistent with the mission described in section 9567(b) of this title, such as activities that—(1) improve services provided under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.] in order to improve—(A) academic achievement, functional outcomes, and educational results for children with disabilities; and

(B) developmental outcomes for infants or toddlers with disabilities;


(2) identify scientifically based educational practices that support learning and improve academic achievement, functional outcomes, and educational results for all students with disabilities;

(3) examine the special needs of preschool aged children, infants, and toddlers with disabilities, including factors that may result in developmental delays;

(4) identify scientifically based related services and interventions that promote participation and progress in the general education curriculum and general education settings;

(5) improve the alignment, compatibility, and development of valid and reliable assessments, including alternate assessments, as required by section 6311(b) of this title;

(6) examine State content standards and alternate assessments for students with significant cognitive impairment in terms of academic achievement, individualized instructional need, appropriate education settings, and improved post-school results;

(7) examine the educational, developmental, and transitional needs of children with high incidence and low incidence disabilities;

(8) examine the extent to which overidentification and underidentification of children with disabilities occurs, and the causes thereof;

(9) improve reading and literacy skills of children with disabilities;

(10) examine and improve secondary and postsecondary education and transitional outcomes and results for children with disabilities;

(11) examine methods of early intervention for children with disabilities, including children with multiple or complex developmental delays;

(12) examine and incorporate universal design concepts in the development of standards, assessments, curricula, and instructional methods to improve educational and transitional results for children with disabilities;

(13) improve the preparation of personnel, including early intervention personnel, who provide educational and related services to children with disabilities to increase the academic achievement and functional performance of students with disabilities;

(14) examine the excess costs of educating a child with a disability and expenses associated with high cost special education and related services;

(15) help parents improve educational results for their children, particularly related to transition issues;

(16) address the unique needs of children with significant cognitive disabilities; and

(17) examine the special needs of limited English proficient children with disabilities.


(b) StandardsThe Special Education Research Commissioner shall ensure that activities assisted under this section—(1) conform to high standards of quality, integrity, accuracy, validity, and reliability;

(2) are carried out in accordance with the standards for the conduct and evaluation of all research and development established by the National Center for Education Research; and

(3) are objective, secular, neutral, and nonideological, and are free of partisan political influence, and racial, cultural, gender, regional, or disability bias.


(c) PlanThe Special Education Research Commissioner shall propose to the Director a research plan, developed in collaboration with the Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, that—(1) is consistent with the priorities and mission of the Institute and the mission of the Special Education Research Center;

(2) is carried out, updated, and modified, as appropriate;

(3) is consistent with the purposes of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.];

(4) contains an appropriate balance across all age ranges and types of children with disabilities;

(5) provides for research that is objective and uses measurable indicators to assess its progress and results; and

(6) is coordinated with the comprehensive plan developed under section 681 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act [20 U.S.C. 1481].


(d) Grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements(1) In generalIn carrying out the duties under this section, the Director may award grants to, or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with, eligible applicants.


(2) Eligible applicantsActivities carried out under this subsection through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements shall be carried out only by recipients with the ability and capacity to conduct scientifically valid research.


(3) ApplicationsAn eligible applicant that wishes to receive a grant, or enter into a contract or cooperative agreement, under this section shall submit an application to the Director at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require.



(e) DisseminationThe Special Education Research Center shall—(1) synthesize and disseminate, through the National Center for Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance, the findings and results of special education research conducted or supported by the Special Education Research Center; and

(2) assist the Director in the preparation of a biennial report, as described in section 9519 of this title.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2005 through 2010.


(Pub. L. 107–279, title I, § 177, as added Pub. L. 108–446, title II, § 201(a)(2), Dec. 3, 2004, 118 Stat. 2800.)


References in TextThe Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1) and (c)(3), is title VI of Pub. L. 91–230, Apr. 13, 1970, 84 Stat. 175, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1400 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1400 of this title and Tables.

Effective DatePub. L. 108–446, title III, § 302(c), Dec. 3, 2004, 118 Stat. 2803, provided that:
“(1) National center for special education research.—Sections 175, 176, and 177 [20 U.S.C. 9567, 9567a, 9567b] (other than section 177(c) [20 U.S.C. 9567b(c)]) of the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002, as enacted by section 201(a)(2) of this Act, shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 3, 2004].

“(2) Plan.—Section 177(c) of the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002, as enacted by section 201(a)(2) of this Act, shall take effect on October 1, 2005.”





