§ 763. Membership roll(a) Opening; establishment of accuracyThe final membership roll is declared open. The Secretary, the Interim Council, and tribal officials under the tribal constitution and bylaws shall take such measures as will insure the continuing accuracy of the membership roll.


(b) Prerequisites for inclusion(1) Until after the initial election of tribal officers under the tribal constitution and bylaws, a person shall be a member of the tribe and his name shall be placed on the membership roll if he is living and if—(A) his name is listed on the final membership roll;

(B) he was entitled on September 1, 1954, to be on the final membership roll but his name was not listed on that roll;

(C) he is a descendant of a person specified in subparagraph (A) or (B) and possesses at least one-fourth degree of blood of members of the tribe or their Paiute Indian ancestors;

(D) his name is listed on the roll established pursuant to the Act of October 17, 1968 (82 Stat. 1147), for the disposition of judgment funds, as a member of the Cedar Band of Paiute Indians;

(E) he was entitled on October 17, 1968, to be on the judgment distribution roll as a member of the Cedar Band as specified in subparagraph (D) but his name was not listed on that roll; or

(F) he is a descendant of a person specified in subparagraph (D) or (E) and possesses at least one-fourth degree of blood of members of the tribe or their Paiute Indian ancestors.


(2) After the initial election of tribal officials under the tribal constitution and bylaws, the provisions of the tribal constitution and bylaws shall govern membership in the tribe.


(c) Verification of descendancy, age, and blood; procedures applicable(1) Before election of the Interim Council, verification of descendancy, age, and blood shall be made upon oath before the Secretary and his determination thereon shall be final.

(2) After election of the Interim Council and before the initial election of the tribal officials, verification of descendancy, age, and blood shall be made upon oath before the Interim Council, or its authorized representative. A member of the tribe, with respect to the inclusion of any name, and any person, with respect to the exclusion of his name, may appeal to the Secretary, who shall make a final determination of each such appeal within ninety days after an appeal has been filed with him. The determination of the Secretary with respect to an appeal under this paragraph shall be final.

(3) After the initial election of tribal officials, the provisions of the tribal constitution and bylaws shall govern the verification of any requirements for membership in the tribe, and the Secretary and the Interim Council shall deliver their records and files, and other material relating to enrollment matters, to the tribal governing body.


(d) Participation in elections and voting rightsFor purposes of section 764 and 765 of this title, a member who is eighteen years of age or older is entitled and eligible to be given notice of, attend, participate in, and vote at, general council meetings and to nominate candidates for, to run for any office in, and to vote in, elections of members to the Interim Council and to other tribal councils.


(Pub. L. 96–227, § 4, Apr. 3, 1980, 94 Stat. 318; Pub. L. 109–126, § 4, Dec. 7, 2005, 119 Stat. 2547.)


References in TextAct of October 17, 1968, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(D), is Pub. L. 90–584, Oct. 17, 1968, 82 Stat. 1147, which is not classified to the Code.

Amendments2005—Subsec. (b)(1)(D), (E). Pub. L. 109–126 substituted “Cedar” for “Cedar City”.


