§ 3122. Local workforce development boards(a) EstablishmentExcept as provided in subsection (c)(2)(A), there shall be established, and certified by the Governor of the State, a local workforce development board in each local area of a State to carry out the functions described in subsection (d) (and any functions specified for the local board under this Act or the provisions establishing a core program) for such area.


(b) Membership(1) State criteriaThe Governor, in partnership with the State board, shall establish criteria for use by chief elected officials in the local areas for appointment of members of the local boards in such local areas in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (2).


(2) CompositionSuch criteria shall require that, at a minimum—(A) a majority of the members of each local board shall be representatives of business in the local area, who—(i) are owners of businesses, chief executives or operating officers of businesses, or other business executives or employers with optimum policymaking or hiring authority;

(ii) represent businesses, including small businesses, or organizations representing businesses described in this clause, that provide employment opportunities that, at a minimum, include high-quality, work-relevant training and development in in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the local area; and

(iii) are appointed from among individuals nominated by local business organizations and business trade associations;


(B) not less than 20 percent of the members of each local board shall be representatives of the workforce within the local area, who—(i) shall include representatives of labor organizations (for a local area in which employees are represented by labor organizations), who have been nominated by local labor federations, or (for a local area in which no employees are represented by such organizations) other representatives of employees;

(ii) shall include a representative, who shall be a member of a labor organization or a training director, from a joint labor-management apprenticeship program, or if no such joint program exists in the area, such a representative of an apprenticeship program in the area, if such a program exists;

(iii) may include representatives of community-based organizations that have demonstrated experience and expertise in addressing the employment needs of individuals with barriers to employment, including organizations that serve veterans or that provide or support competitive integrated employment for individuals with disabilities; and

(iv) may include representatives of organizations that have demonstrated experience and expertise in addressing the employment, training, or education needs of eligible youth, including representatives of organizations that serve out-of-school youth;


(C) each local board shall include representatives of entities administering education and training activities in the local area, who—(i) shall include a representative of eligible providers administering adult education and literacy activities under subchapter II;

(ii) shall include a representative of institutions of higher education providing workforce investment activities (including community colleges);

(iii) may include representatives of local educational agencies, and of community-based organizations with demonstrated experience and expertise in addressing the education or training needs of individuals with barriers to employment;


(D) each local board shall include representatives of governmental and economic and community development entities serving the local area, who—(i) shall include a representative of economic and community development entities;

(ii) shall include an appropriate representative from the State employment service office under the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.) serving the local area;

(iii) shall include an appropriate representative of the programs carried out under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq.), other than section 112 or part C of that title (29 U.S.C. 732, 741), serving the local area;

(iv) may include representatives of agencies or entities administering programs serving the local area relating to transportation, housing, and public assistance; and

(v) may include representatives of philanthropic organizations serving the local area; and


(E) each local board may include such other individuals or representatives of entities as the chief elected official in the local area may determine to be appropriate.


(3) ChairpersonThe members of the local board shall elect a chairperson for the local board from among the representatives described in paragraph (2)(A).


(4) Standing committees(A) In generalThe local board may designate and direct the activities of standing committees to provide information and to assist the local board in carrying out activities under this section. Such standing committees shall be chaired by a member of the local board, may include other members of the local board, and shall include other individuals appointed by the local board who are not members of the local board and who the local board determines have appropriate experience and expertise. At a minimum, the local board may designate each of the following:(i) A standing committee to provide information and assist with operational and other issues relating to the one-stop delivery system, which may include as members representatives of the one-stop partners.

(ii) A standing committee to provide information and to assist with planning, operational, and other issues relating to the provision of services to youth, which shall include community-based organizations with a demonstrated record of success in serving eligible youth.

(iii) A standing committee to provide information and to assist with operational and other issues relating to the provision of services to individuals with disabilities, including issues relating to compliance with section 3248 of this title, if applicable, and applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.) regarding providing programmatic and physical access to the services, programs, and activities of the one-stop delivery system, as well as appropriate training for staff on providing supports for or accommodations to, and finding employment opportunities for, individuals with disabilities.


(B) Additional committeesThe local board may designate standing committees in addition to the standing committees specified in subparagraph (A).


(C) Designation of entityNothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prohibit the designation of an existing (as of July 22, 2014) entity, such as an effective youth council, to fulfill the requirements of this paragraph as long as the entity meets the requirements of this paragraph.



(5) Authority of board membersMembers of the board that represent organizations, agencies, or other entities shall be individuals with optimum policymaking authority within the organizations, agencies, or entities. The members of the board shall represent diverse geographic areas within the local area.


(6) Special ruleIf there are multiple eligible providers serving the local area by administering adult education and literacy activities under subchapter II, or multiple institutions of higher education serving the local area by providing workforce investment activities, each representative on the local board described in clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (2)(C), respectively, shall be appointed from among individuals nominated by local providers representing such providers or institutions, respectively.



(c) Appointment and certification of board(1) Appointment of board members and assignment of responsibilities(A) In generalThe chief elected official in a local area is authorized to appoint the members of the local board for such area, in accordance with the State criteria established under subsection (b).


(B) Multiple units of local government in area(i) In generalIn a case in which a local area includes more than 1 unit of general local government, the chief elected officials of such units may execute an agreement that specifies the respective roles of the individual chief elected officials—(I) in the appointment of the members of the local board from the individuals nominated or recommended to be such members in accordance with the criteria established under subsection (b); and

(II) in carrying out any other responsibilities assigned to such officials under this subchapter.


(ii) Lack of agreementIf, after a reasonable effort, the chief elected officials are unable to reach agreement as provided under clause (i), the Governor may appoint the members of the local board from individuals so nominated or recommended.



(C) Concentrated employment programsIn the case of an area that was designated as a local area in accordance with section 2831(a)(2)(B) of this title (as in effect on the day before July 22, 2014), and that remains a local area on that date, the governing body of the concentrated employment program involved shall act in consultation with the chief elected official in the local area to appoint members of the local board, in accordance with the State criteria established under subsection (b), and to carry out any other responsibility relating to workforce investment activities assigned to such official under this Act.



(2) Certification(A) In generalThe Governor shall, once every 2 years, certify 1 local board for each local area in the State.


(B) CriteriaSuch certification shall be based on criteria established under subsection (b), and for a second or subsequent certification, the extent to which the local board has ensured that workforce investment activities carried out in the local area have enabled the local area to meet the corresponding performance accountability measures and achieve sustained fiscal integrity, as defined in section 3121(e)(2) of this title.


(C) Failure to achieve certificationFailure of a local board to achieve certification shall result in appointment and certification of a new local board for the local area pursuant to the process described in paragraph (1) and this paragraph.



(3) Decertification(A) Fraud, abuse, failure to carry out functionsNotwithstanding paragraph (2), the Governor shall have the authority to decertify a local board at any time after providing notice and an opportunity for comment, for—(i) fraud or abuse; or

(ii) failure to carry out the functions specified for the local board in subsection (d).


(B) NonperformanceNotwithstanding paragraph (2), the Governor may decertify a local board if a local area fails to meet the local performance accountability measures for such local area in accordance with section 3141(c) of this title for 2 consecutive program years.


(C) Reorganization planIf the Governor decertifies a local board for a local area under subparagraph (A) or (B), the Governor may require that a new local board be appointed and certified for the local area pursuant to a reorganization plan developed by the Governor, in consultation with the chief elected official in the local area and in accordance with the criteria established under subsection (b).



(4) Single State local area(A) State boardNotwithstanding subsection (b) and paragraphs (1) and (2), if a State described in section 3121(d) of this title indicates in the State plan that the State will be treated as a single State local area, for purposes of the application of this Act or the provisions authorizing a core program, the State board shall carry out any of the functions of a local board under this Act or the provisions authorizing a core program, including the functions described in subsection (d).


(B) References(i) In generalExcept as provided in clauses (ii) and (iii), with respect to such a State, a reference in this Act or a core program provision to a local board shall be considered to be a reference to the State board, and a reference in the Act or provision to a local area or region shall be considered to be a reference to the State.


(ii) PlansThe State board shall prepare a local plan under section 3123 of this title for the State, and submit the plan for approval as part of the State plan.


(iii) Performance accountability measuresThe State shall not be required to meet and report on a set of local performance accountability measures.





(d) Functions of local boardConsistent with section 3123 of this title, the functions of the local board shall include the following:(1) Local planThe local board, in partnership with the chief elected official for the local area involved, shall develop and submit a local plan to the Governor that meets the requirements in section 3123 of this title. If the local area is part of a planning region that includes other local areas, the local board shall collaborate with the other local boards and chief elected officials from such other local areas in the preparation and submission of a regional plan as described in section 3121(c)(2) of this title.


(2) Workforce research and regional labor market analysisIn order to assist in the development and implementation of the local plan, the local board shall—(A) carry out analyses of the economic conditions in the region, the needed knowledge and skills for the region, the workforce in the region, and workforce development activities (including education and training) in the region described in section 3123(b)(1)(D) of this title, and regularly update such information;

(B) assist the Governor in developing the statewide workforce and labor market information system described in section 15(e) of the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49l–2(e)), specifically in the collection, analysis, and utilization of workforce and labor market information for the region; and

(C) conduct such other research, data collection, and analysis related to the workforce needs of the regional economy as the board, after receiving input from a wide array of stakeholders, determines to be necessary to carry out its functions.


(3) Convening, brokering, leveragingThe local board shall convene local workforce development system stakeholders to assist in the development of the local plan under section 3123 of this title and in identifying non-Federal expertise and resources to leverage support for workforce development activities. The local board, including standing committees, may engage such stakeholders in carrying out the functions described in this subsection.


(4) Employer engagementThe local board shall lead efforts to engage with a diverse range of employers and with entities in the region involved—(A) to promote business representation (particularly representatives with optimal policymaking or hiring authority from employers whose employment opportunities reflect existing and emerging employment opportunities in the region) on the local board;

(B) to develop effective linkages (including the use of intermediaries) with employers in the region to support employer utilization of the local workforce development system and to support local workforce investment activities;

(C) to ensure that workforce investment activities meet the needs of employers and support economic growth in the region, by enhancing communication, coordination, and collaboration among employers, economic development entities, and service providers; and

(D) to develop and implement proven or promising strategies for meeting the employment and skill needs of workers and employers (such as the establishment of industry and sector partnerships), that provide the skilled workforce needed by employers in the region, and that expand employment and career advancement opportunities for workforce development system participants in in-demand industry sectors or occupations.


(5) Career pathways developmentThe local board, with representatives of secondary and postsecondary education programs, shall lead efforts in the local area to develop and implement career pathways within the local area by aligning the employment, training, education, and supportive services that are needed by adults and youth, particularly individuals with barriers to employment.


(6) Proven and promising practicesThe local board shall lead efforts in the local area to—(A) identify and promote proven and promising strategies and initiatives for meeting the needs of employers, and workers and jobseekers (including individuals with barriers to employment) in the local workforce development system, including providing physical and programmatic accessibility, in accordance with section 3248 of this title, if applicable, and applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.), to the one-stop delivery system; and

(B) identify and disseminate information on proven and promising practices carried out in other local areas for meeting such needs.


(7) TechnologyThe local board shall develop strategies for using technology to maximize the accessibility and effectiveness of the local workforce development system for employers, and workers and jobseekers, by—(A) facilitating connections among the intake and case management information systems of the one-stop partner programs to support a comprehensive workforce development system in the local area;

(B) facilitating access to services provided through the one-stop delivery system involved, including facilitating the access in remote areas;

(C) identifying strategies for better meeting the needs of individuals with barriers to employment, including strategies that augment traditional service delivery, and increase access to services and programs of the one-stop delivery system, such as improving digital literacy skills; and

(D) leveraging resources and capacity within the local workforce development system, including resources and capacity for services for individuals with barriers to employment.


(8) Program oversightThe local board, in partnership with the chief elected official for the local area, shall—(A)(i) conduct oversight for local youth workforce investment activities authorized under section 3164(c) of this title, local employment and training activities authorized under subsections (c) and (d) of section 3174 of this title, and the one-stop delivery system in the local area; and

(ii) ensure the appropriate use and management of the funds provided under part B for the activities and system described in clause (i); and


(B) for workforce development activities, ensure the appropriate use, management, and investment of funds to maximize performance outcomes under section 3141 of this title.


(9) Negotiation of local performance accountability measuresThe local board, the chief elected official, and the Governor shall negotiate and reach agreement on local performance accountability measures as described in section 3141(c) of this title.


(10) Selection of operators and providers(A) Selection of one-stop operatorsConsistent with section 3151(d) of this title, the local board, with the agreement of the chief elected official for the local area—(i) shall designate or certify one-stop operators as described in section 3151(d)(2)(A) of this title; and

(ii) may terminate for cause the eligibility of such operators.


(B) Selection of youth providersConsistent with section 3153 of this title, the local board—(i) shall identify eligible providers of youth workforce investment activities in the local area by awarding grants or contracts on a competitive basis (except as provided in section 3153(b) of this title), based on the recommendations of the youth standing committee, if such a committee is established for the local area under subsection (b)(4); and

(ii) may terminate for cause the eligibility of such providers.


(C) Identification of eligible providers of training servicesConsistent with section 3152 of this title, the local board shall identify eligible providers of training services in the local area.


(D) Identification of eligible providers of career servicesIf the one-stop operator does not provide career services described in section 3174(c)(2) of this title in a local area, the local board shall identify eligible providers of those career services in the local area by awarding contracts.


(E) Consumer choice requirementsConsistent with section 3152 of this title and paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 3174(c) of this title, the local board shall work with the State to ensure there are sufficient numbers and types of providers of career services and training services (including eligible providers with expertise in assisting individuals with disabilities and eligible providers with expertise in assisting adults in need of adult education and literacy activities) serving the local area and providing the services involved in a manner that maximizes consumer choice, as well as providing opportunities that lead to competitive integrated employment for individuals with disabilities.



(11) Coordination with education providers(A) In generalThe local board shall coordinate activities with education and training providers in the local area, including providers of workforce investment activities, providers of adult education and literacy activities under subchapter II, providers of career and technical education (as defined in section 2302 of title 20) and local agencies administering plans under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq.), other than section 112 or part C of that title (29 U.S.C. 732, 741).


(B) Applications and agreementsThe coordination described in subparagraph (A) shall include—(i) consistent with section 3322 of this title—(I) reviewing the applications to provide adult education and literacy activities under subchapter II for the local area, submitted under such section to the eligible agency by eligible providers, to determine whether such applications are consistent with the local plan; and

(II) making recommendations to the eligible agency to promote alignment with such plan; and


(ii) replicating cooperative agreements in accordance with subparagraph (B) of section 101(a)(11) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(11)[(B)]), and implementing cooperative agreements in accordance with that section with the local agencies administering plans under title I of that Act (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq.) (other than section 112 or part C of that title (29 U.S.C. 732, 741) and subject to section 3151(f) of this title), with respect to efforts that will enhance the provision of services to individuals with disabilities and other individuals, such as cross training of staff, technical assistance, use and sharing of information, cooperative efforts with employers, and other efforts at cooperation, collaboration, and coordination.


(C) Cooperative agreementIn this paragraph, the term “cooperative agreement” means an agreement entered into by a State designated agency or State designated unit under subparagraph (A) of section 101(a)(11) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 [29 U.S.C. 721(a)(11)(A)].



(12) Budget and administration(A) BudgetThe local board shall develop a budget for the activities of the local board in the local area, consistent with the local plan and the duties of the local board under this section, subject to the approval of the chief elected official.


(B) Administration(i) Grant recipient(I) In generalThe chief elected official in a local area shall serve as the local grant recipient for, and shall be liable for any misuse of, the grant funds allocated to the local area under sections 3163 and 3173 of this title, unless the chief elected official reaches an agreement with the Governor for the Governor to act as the local grant recipient and bear such liability.


(II) DesignationIn order to assist in administration of the grant funds, the chief elected official or the Governor, where the Governor serves as the local grant recipient for a local area, may designate an entity to serve as a local grant subrecipient for such funds or as a local fiscal agent. Such designation shall not relieve the chief elected official or the Governor of the liability for any misuse of grant funds as described in subclause (I).


(III) DisbursalThe local grant recipient or an entity designated under subclause (II) shall disburse the grant funds for workforce investment activities at the direction of the local board, pursuant to the requirements of this subchapter. The local grant recipient or entity designated under subclause (II) shall disburse the funds immediately on receiving such direction from the local board.



(ii) Grants and donationsThe local board may solicit and accept grants and donations from sources other than Federal funds made available under this Act.


(iii) Tax-exempt statusFor purposes of carrying out duties under this Act, local boards may incorporate, and may operate as entities described in section 501(c)(3) of title 26 that are exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such title.




(13) Accessibility for individuals with disabilitiesThe local board shall annually assess the physical and programmatic accessibility, in accordance with section 3248 of this title, if applicable, and applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.), of all one-stop centers in the local area.



(e) Sunshine provisionThe local board shall make available to the public, on a regular basis through electronic means and open meetings, information regarding the activities of the local board, including information regarding the local plan prior to submission of the plan, and regarding membership, the designation and certification of one-stop operators, and the award of grants or contracts to eligible providers of youth workforce investment activities, and on request, minutes of formal meetings of the local board.


(f) Staff(1) In generalThe local board may hire a director and other staff to assist in carrying out the functions described in subsection (d) using funds available under sections 3163(b) and 3173(b) of this title as described in section 3163(b)(4) of this title.


(2) QualificationsThe local board shall establish and apply a set of objective qualifications for the position of director, that ensures that the individual selected has the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities, to meet identified benchmarks and to assist in effectively carrying out the functions of the local board.


(3) Limitation on rateThe director and staff described in paragraph (1) shall be subject to the limitations on the payment of salaries and bonuses described in section 3254(15) of this title.



(g) Limitations(1) Training services(A) In generalExcept as provided in subparagraph (B), no local board may provide training services.


(B) Waivers of training prohibitionThe Governor of the State in which a local board is located may, pursuant to a request from the local board, grant a written waiver of the prohibition set forth in subparagraph (A) (relating to the provision of training services) for a program of training services, if the local board—(i) submits to the Governor a proposed request for the waiver that includes—(I) satisfactory evidence that there is an insufficient number of eligible providers of such a program of training services to meet local demand in the local area;

(II) information demonstrating that the board meets the requirements for an eligible provider of training services under section 3152 of this title; and

(III) information demonstrating that the program of training services prepares participants for an in-demand industry sector or occupation in the local area;


(ii) makes the proposed request available to eligible providers of training services and other interested members of the public for a public comment period of not less than 30 days; and

(iii) includes, in the final request for the waiver, the evidence and information described in clause (i) and the comments received pursuant to clause (ii).


(C) DurationA waiver granted to a local board under subparagraph (B) shall apply for a period that shall not exceed the duration of the local plan. The waiver may be renewed for additional periods under subsequent local plans, not to exceed the durations of such subsequent plans, pursuant to requests from the local board, if the board meets the requirements of subparagraph (B) in making the requests.


(D) RevocationThe Governor shall have the authority to revoke the waiver during the appropriate period described in subparagraph (C) if the Governor determines the waiver is no longer needed or that the local board involved has engaged in a pattern of inappropriate referrals to training services operated by the local board.



(2) Career services; designation or certification as one-stop operatorsA local board may provide career services described in section 3174(c)(2) of this title through a one-stop delivery system or be designated or certified as a one-stop operator only with the agreement of the chief elected official in the local area and the Governor.


(3) Limitation on authorityNothing in this Act shall be construed to provide a local board with the authority to mandate curricula for schools.



(h) Conflict of interestA member of a local board, or a member of a standing committee, may not—(1) vote on a matter under consideration by the local board—(A) regarding the provision of services by such member (or by an entity that such member represents); or

(B) that would provide direct financial benefit to such member or the immediate family of such member; or


(2) engage in any other activity determined by the Governor to constitute a conflict of interest as specified in the State plan.


(i) Alternative entity(1) In generalFor purposes of complying with subsections (a), (b), and (c), a State may use any local entity (including a local council, regional workforce development board, or similar entity) that—(A) is established to serve the local area (or the service delivery area that most closely corresponds to the local area);

(B) was in existence on the day before July 22, 2014, pursuant to State law; and

(C) includes—(i) representatives of business in the local area; and

(ii)(I) representatives of labor organizations (for a local area in which employees are represented by labor organizations), nominated by local labor federations; or

(II) other representatives of employees in the local area (for a local area in which no employees are represented by such organizations).




(2) ReferencesA reference in this Act or a core program provision to a local board, shall include a reference to such an entity.



(Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 107, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1456.)


References in TextThis Act, referred to in subsecs. (a), (c)(1)(C), (4)(A), (B)(i), (d)(12)(B)(ii), (iii), (g)(3), and (i)(2), is Pub. L. 113–128, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1425, known as the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, which enacted this chapter, repealed chapter 30 (§ 2801 et seq.) of this title and chapter 73 (§ 9201 et seq.) of Title 20, Education, and made amendments to numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3101 of this title and Tables.
The Wagner-Peyser Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(D)(ii), is act June 6, 1933, ch. 49, 48 Stat. 113, which is classified generally to chapter 4B (§ 49 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 49 of this title and Tables.
The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, referred to in subsecs. (b)(2)(D)(iii) and (d)(11)(A), (B)(ii), is Pub. L. 93–112, Sept. 26, 1973, 87 Stat. 355. Title I of the Act is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 720 et seq.) of chapter 16 of this title. Part C of title I of the Act is classified generally to part C (§ 741) of subchapter I of chapter 16 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 701 of this title and Tables.
The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, referred to in subsecs. (b)(4)(A)(iii) and (d)(6)(A), (13), is Pub. L. 101–336, July 26, 1990, 104 Stat. 327, which is classified principally to chapter 126 (§ 12101 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 12101 of Title 42 and Tables.

Effective DateSection effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 [probably July 1, 2015], see section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128, set out as a note under section 3101 of this title.


