“SEC. 1411. ENHANCED INTELLIGENCE CONSULTATION ON SATELLITE LICENSE APPLICATIONS“(a) Consultation During Review of Applications.—The Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense, as appropriate, shall consult with the Director of Central Intelligence during the review of any application for a license involving the overseas launch of a commercial satellite of United States origin. The purpose of the consultation is to assure that the launch of the satellite, if the license is approved, will meet the requirements necessary to protect the national security interests of the United States.

“(b) Advisory Group.—(1) The Director of Central Intelligence shall establish within the intelligence community an advisory group to provide information and analysis to Congress, and to appropriate departments and agencies of the Federal Government, on the national security implications of granting licenses involving the overseas launch of commercial satellites of United States origin.

“(2) The advisory group shall include technically-qualified representatives of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, the National Air Intelligence Center, and the Department of State Bureau of Intelligence and Research and representatives of other elements of the intelligence community with appropriate expertise.

“(3) In addition to the duties under paragraph (1), the advisory group shall—“(A) review, on a continuing basis, information relating to transfers of satellite, launch vehicle, or other technology or knowledge with respect to the course of the overseas launch of commercial satellites of United States origin; and

“(B) analyze the potential impact of such transfers on the space and military systems, programs, or activities of foreign countries.


“(4) The Director of the Nonproliferation Center of the Central Intelligence Agency shall serve as chairman of the advisory group.

“(5)(A) The advisory group shall, upon request (but not less often than annually), submit reports on the matters referred to in paragraphs (1) and (3) to the appropriate committees of Congress and to appropriate departments and agencies of the Federal Government.

“(B) The first annual report under subparagraph (A) shall be submitted not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 5, 1999].



“(c) Intelligence Community Defined.—In this section, the term ‘intelligence community’ has the meaning given that term in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401a(4)) [now 50 U.S.C. 3003(4)].

