§ 1181. Increased portability through limitation on preexisting condition exclusions(a) Limitation on preexisting condition exclusion period; crediting for periods of previous coverageSubject to subsection (d) of this section, a group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, may, with respect to a participant or beneficiary, impose a preexisting condition exclusion only if—(1) such exclusion relates to a condition (whether physical or mental), regardless of the cause of the condition, for which medical advice, diagnosis, care, or treatment was recommended or received within the 6-month period ending on the enrollment date;

(2) such exclusion extends for a period of not more than 12 months (or 18 months in the case of a late enrollee) after the enrollment date; and

(3) the period of any such preexisting condition exclusion is reduced by the aggregate of the periods of creditable coverage (if any, as defined in subsection (c)(1) of this section) applicable to the participant or beneficiary as of the enrollment date.


(b) DefinitionsFor purposes of this part—(1) Preexisting condition exclusion(A) In generalThe term “preexisting condition exclusion” means, with respect to coverage, a limitation or exclusion of benefits relating to a condition based on the fact that the condition was present before the date of enrollment for such coverage, whether or not any medical advice, diagnosis, care, or treatment was recommended or received before such date.


(B) Treatment of genetic informationGenetic information shall not be treated as a condition described in subsection (a)(1) of this section in the absence of a diagnosis of the condition related to such information.



(2) Enrollment dateThe term “enrollment date” means, with respect to an individual covered under a group health plan or health insurance coverage, the date of enrollment of the individual in the plan or coverage or, if earlier, the first day of the waiting period for such enrollment.


(3) Late enrolleeThe term “late enrollee” means, with respect to coverage under a group health plan, a participant or beneficiary who enrolls under the plan other than during—(A) the first period in which the individual is eligible to enroll under the plan, or

(B) a special enrollment period under subsection (f) of this section.


(4) Waiting periodThe term “waiting period” means, with respect to a group health plan and an individual who is a potential participant or beneficiary in the plan, the period that must pass with respect to the individual before the individual is eligible to be covered for benefits under the terms of the plan.



(c) Rules relating to crediting previous coverage(1) “Creditable coverage” definedFor purposes of this part, the term “creditable coverage” means, with respect to an individual, coverage of the individual under any of the following:(A) A group health plan.

(B) Health insurance coverage.

(C) Part A or part B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395c et seq.; 1395j et seq.].

(D) Title XIX of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.], other than coverage consisting solely of benefits under section 1928 [42 U.S.C. 1396s].

(E) Chapter 55 of title 10.

(F) A medical care program of the Indian Health Service or of a tribal organization.

(G) A State health benefits risk pool.

(H) A health plan offered under chapter 89 of title 5.

(I) A public health plan (as defined in regulations).

(J) A health benefit plan under section 2504(e) of title 22.


Such term does not include coverage consisting solely of coverage of excepted benefits (as defined in section 1191b(c) of this title).

(2) Not counting periods before significant breaks in coverage(A) In generalA period of creditable coverage shall not be counted, with respect to enrollment of an individual under a group health plan, if, after such period and before the enrollment date, there was a 63-day period during all of which the individual was not covered under any creditable coverage.


(B) Waiting period not treated as a break in coverageFor purposes of subparagraph (A) and subsection (d)(4) of this section, any period that an individual is in a waiting period for any coverage under a group health plan (or for group health insurance coverage) or is in an affiliation period (as defined in subsection (g)(2) of this section) shall not be taken into account in determining the continuous period under subparagraph (A).


(C) TAA-eligible individualsIn the case of plan years beginning before January 1, 2014—(i) TAA pre-certification period ruleIn the case of a TAA-eligible individual, the period beginning on the date the individual has a TAA-related loss of coverage and ending on the date that is 7 days after the date of the issuance by the Secretary (or by any person or entity designated by the Secretary) of a qualified health insurance costs credit eligibility certificate for such individual for purposes of section 7527 of title 26 shall not be taken into account in determining the continuous period under subparagraph (A).


(ii) DefinitionsThe terms “TAA-eligible individual” and “TAA-related loss of coverage” have the meanings given such terms in section 1165(b)(4) of this title.




(3) Method of crediting coverage(A) Standard methodExcept as otherwise provided under subparagraph (B), for purposes of applying subsection (a)(3) of this section, a group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, shall count a period of creditable coverage without regard to the specific benefits covered during the period.


(B) Election of alternative methodA group health plan, or a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, may elect to apply subsection (a)(3) of this section based on coverage of benefits within each of several classes or categories of benefits specified in regulations rather than as provided under subparagraph (A). Such election shall be made on a uniform basis for all participants and beneficiaries. Under such election a group health plan or issuer shall count a period of creditable coverage with respect to any class or category of benefits if any level of benefits is covered within such class or category.


(C) Plan noticeIn the case of an election with respect to a group health plan under subparagraph (B) (whether or not health insurance coverage is provided in connection with such plan), the plan shall—(i) prominently state in any disclosure statements concerning the plan, and state to each enrollee at the time of enrollment under the plan, that the plan has made such election, and

(ii) include in such statements a description of the effect of this election.



(4) Establishment of periodPeriods of creditable coverage with respect to an individual shall be established through presentation of certifications described in subsection (e) of this section or in such other manner as may be specified in regulations.



(d) Exceptions(1) Exclusion not applicable to certain newbornsSubject to paragraph (4), a group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, may not impose any preexisting condition exclusion in the case of an individual who, as of the last day of the 30-day period beginning with the date of birth, is covered under creditable coverage.


(2) Exclusion not applicable to certain adopted childrenSubject to paragraph (4), a group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, may not impose any preexisting condition exclusion in the case of a child who is adopted or placed for adoption before attaining 18 years of age and who, as of the last day of the 30-day period beginning on the date of the adoption or placement for adoption, is covered under creditable coverage. The previous sentence shall not apply to coverage before the date of such adoption or placement for adoption.


(3) Exclusion not applicable to pregnancyA group health plan, and health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, may not impose any preexisting condition exclusion relating to pregnancy as a preexisting condition.


(4) Loss if break in coverageParagraphs (1) and (2) shall no longer apply to an individual after the end of the first 63-day period during all of which the individual was not covered under any creditable coverage.



(e) Certifications and disclosure of coverage(1) Requirement for certification of period of creditable coverage(A) In generalA group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage, shall provide the certification described in subparagraph (B)—(i) at the time an individual ceases to be covered under the plan or otherwise becomes covered under a COBRA continuation provision,

(ii) in the case of an individual becoming covered under such a provision, at the time the individual ceases to be covered under such provision, and

(iii) on the request on behalf of an individual made not later than 24 months after the date of cessation of the coverage described in clause (i) or (ii), whichever is later.


The certification under clause (i) may be provided, to the extent practicable, at a time consistent with notices required under any applicable COBRA continuation provision.

(B) CertificationThe certification described in this subparagraph is a written certification of—(i) the period of creditable coverage of the individual under such plan and the coverage (if any) under such COBRA continuation provision, and

(ii) the waiting period (if any) (and affiliation period, if applicable) imposed with respect to the individual for any coverage under such plan.


(C) Issuer complianceTo the extent that medical care under a group health plan consists of group health insurance coverage, the plan is deemed to have satisfied the certification requirement under this paragraph if the health insurance issuer offering the coverage provides for such certification in accordance with this paragraph.



(2) Disclosure of information on previous benefitsIn the case of an election described in subsection (c)(3)(B) of this section by a group health plan or health insurance issuer, if the plan or issuer enrolls an individual for coverage under the plan and the individual provides a certification of coverage of the individual under paragraph (1)—(A) upon request of such plan or issuer, the entity which issued the certification provided by the individual shall promptly disclose to such requesting plan or issuer information on coverage of classes and categories of health benefits available under such entity’s plan or coverage, and

(B) such entity may charge the requesting plan or issuer for the reasonable cost of disclosing such information.


(3) RegulationsThe Secretary shall establish rules to prevent an entity’s failure to provide information under paragraph (1) or (2) with respect to previous coverage of an individual from adversely affecting any subsequent coverage of the individual under another group health plan or health insurance coverage.



(f) Special enrollment periods(1) Individuals losing other coverageA group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage in connection with a group health plan, shall permit an employee who is eligible, but not enrolled, for coverage under the terms of the plan (or a dependent of such an employee if the dependent is eligible, but not enrolled, for coverage under such terms) to enroll for coverage under the terms of the plan if each of the following conditions is met:(A) The employee or dependent was covered under a group health plan or had health insurance coverage at the time coverage was previously offered to the employee or dependent.

(B) The employee stated in writing at such time that coverage under a group health plan or health insurance coverage was the reason for declining enrollment, but only if the plan sponsor or issuer (if applicable) required such a statement at such time and provided the employee with notice of such requirement (and the consequences of such requirement) at such time.

(C) The employee’s or dependent’s coverage described in subparagraph (A)—(i) was under a COBRA continuation provision and the coverage under such provision was exhausted; or

(ii) was not under such a provision and either the coverage was terminated as a result of loss of eligibility for the coverage (including as a result of legal separation, divorce, death, termination of employment, or reduction in the number of hours of employment) or employer contributions toward such coverage were terminated.


(D) Under the terms of the plan, the employee requests such enrollment not later than 30 days after the date of exhaustion of coverage described in subparagraph (C)(i) or termination of coverage or employer contribution described in subparagraph (C)(ii).


(2) For dependent beneficiaries(A) In generalIf—(i) a group health plan makes coverage available with respect to a dependent of an individual,

(ii) the individual is a participant under the plan (or has met any waiting period applicable to becoming a participant under the plan and is eligible to be enrolled under the plan but for a failure to enroll during a previous enrollment period), and

(iii) a person becomes such a dependent of the individual through marriage, birth, or adoption or placement for adoption,


the group health plan shall provide for a dependent special enrollment period described in subparagraph (B) during which the person (or, if not otherwise enrolled, the individual) may be enrolled under the plan as a dependent of the individual, and in the case of the birth or adoption of a child, the spouse of the individual may be enrolled as a dependent of the individual if such spouse is otherwise eligible for coverage.

(B) Dependent special enrollment periodA dependent special enrollment period under this subparagraph shall be a period of not less than 30 days and shall begin on the later of—(i) the date dependent coverage is made available, or

(ii) the date of the marriage, birth, or adoption or placement for adoption (as the case may be) described in subparagraph (A)(iii).


(C) No waiting periodIf an individual seeks to enroll a dependent during the first 30 days of such a dependent special enrollment period, the coverage of the dependent shall become effective—(i) in the case of marriage, not later than the first day of the first month beginning after the date the completed request for enrollment is received;

(ii) in the case of a dependent’s birth, as of the date of such birth; or

(iii) in the case of a dependent’s adoption or placement for adoption, the date of such adoption or placement for adoption.



(3) Special rules for application in case of Medicaid and CHIP(A) In generalA group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group health insurance coverage in connection with a group health plan, shall permit an employee who is eligible, but not enrolled, for coverage under the terms of the plan (or a dependent of such an employee if the dependent is eligible, but not enrolled, for coverage under such terms) to enroll for coverage under the terms of the plan if either of the following conditions is met:(i) Termination of Medicaid or CHIP coverageThe employee or dependent is covered under a Medicaid plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.] or under a State child health plan under title XXI of such Act [42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.] and coverage of the employee or dependent under such a plan is terminated as a result of loss of eligibility for such coverage and the employee requests coverage under the group health plan (or health insurance coverage) not later than 60 days after the date of termination of such coverage.


(ii) Eligibility for employment assistance under Medicaid or CHIPThe employee or dependent becomes eligible for assistance, with respect to coverage under the group health plan or health insurance coverage, under such Medicaid plan or State child health plan (including under any waiver or demonstration project conducted under or in relation to such a plan), if the employee requests coverage under the group health plan or health insurance coverage not later than 60 days after the date the employee or dependent is determined to be eligible for such assistance.



(B) Coordination with Medicaid and CHIP(i) Outreach to employees regarding availability of Medicaid and CHIP coverage(I) In generalEach employer that maintains a group health plan in a State that provides medical assistance under a State Medicaid plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act, or child health assistance under a State child health plan under title XXI of such Act, in the form of premium assistance for the purchase of coverage under a group health plan, shall provide to each employee a written notice informing the employee of potential opportunities then currently available in the State in which the employee resides for premium assistance under such plans for health coverage of the employee or the employee’s dependents.


(II) Model noticeNot later than 1 year after February 4, 2009, the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with Directors of State Medicaid agencies under title XIX of the Social Security Act and Directors of State CHIP agencies under title XXI of such Act, shall jointly develop national and State-specific model notices for purposes of subparagraph (A). The Secretary shall provide employers with such model notices so as to enable employers to timely comply with the requirements of subparagraph (A). Such model notices shall include information regarding how an employee may contact the State in which the employee resides for additional information regarding potential opportunities for such premium assistance, including how to apply for such assistance.


(III) Option to provide concurrent with provision of plan materials to employeeAn employer may provide the model notice applicable to the State in which an employee resides concurrent with the furnishing of materials notifying the employee of health plan eligibility, concurrent with materials provided to the employee in connection with an open season or election process conducted under the plan, or concurrent with the furnishing of the summary plan description as provided in section 1024(b) of this title.



(ii) Disclosure about group health plan benefits to States for Medicaid and CHIP eligible individualsIn the case of a participant or beneficiary of a group health plan who is covered under a Medicaid plan of a State under title XIX of the Social Security Act or under a State child health plan under title XXI of such Act, the plan administrator of the group health plan shall disclose to the State, upon request, information about the benefits available under the group health plan in sufficient specificity, as determined under regulations of the Secretary of Health and Human Services in consultation with the Secretary that require use of the model coverage coordination disclosure form developed under section 311(b)(1)(C) of the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009, so as to permit the State to make a determination (under paragraph (2)(B), (3), or (10) of section 2105(c) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1397ee(c)(2)(B), (3), (10)] or otherwise) concerning the cost-effectiveness of the State providing medical or child health assistance through premium assistance for the purchase of coverage under such group health plan and in order for the State to provide supplemental benefits required under paragraph (10)(E) of such section or other authority.





(g) Use of affiliation period by HMOs as alternative to preexisting condition exclusion(1) In generalIn the case of a group health plan that offers medical care through health insurance coverage offered by a health maintenance organization, the plan may provide for an affiliation period with respect to coverage through the organization only if—(A) no preexisting condition exclusion is imposed with respect to coverage through the organization,

(B) the period is applied uniformly without regard to any health status-related factors, and

(C) such period does not exceed 2 months (or 3 months in the case of a late enrollee).


(2) Affiliation period(A) DefinedFor purposes of this part, the term “affiliation period” means a period which, under the terms of the health insurance coverage offered by the health maintenance organization, must expire before the health insurance coverage becomes effective. The organization is not required to provide health care services or benefits during such period and no premium shall be charged to the participant or beneficiary for any coverage during the period.


(B) BeginningSuch period shall begin on the enrollment date.


(C) Runs concurrently with waiting periodsAn affiliation period under a plan shall run concurrently with any waiting period under the plan.



(3) Alternative methodsA health maintenance organization described in paragraph (1) may use alternative methods, from those described in such paragraph, to address adverse selection as approved by the State insurance commissioner or official or officials designated by the State to enforce the requirements of part A of title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act [42 U.S.C. 300gg et seq.] for the State involved with respect to such issuer.



(Pub. L. 93–406, title I, § 701, as added Pub. L. 104–191, title I, § 101(a), Aug. 21, 1996, 110 Stat. 1939; amended Pub. L. 104–204, title VI, § 603(b)(3)(H), Sept. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 2938; Pub. L. 111–3, title III, § 311(b)(1)(A), Feb. 4, 2009, 123 Stat. 65; Pub. L. 111–5, div. B, title I, § 1899D(b), Feb. 17, 2009, 123 Stat. 426; Pub. L. 111–344, title I, § 114(b), Dec. 29, 2010, 124 Stat. 3615; Pub. L. 112–40, title II, § 242(a)(2), Oct. 21, 2011, 125 Stat. 419.)


References in TextThe Social Security Act, referred to in subsecs. (c)(1)(C), (D), (f)(3)(A)(i), (B)(i)(I), (II), (ii), is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620. Parts A and B of title XVIII of the Act are classified generally to parts A (§ 1395c et seq.) and B (§ 1395j et seq.) of subchapter XVIII of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. Titles XIX and XXI of the Act are classified generally to subchapters XIX (§ 1396 et seq.) and XXI (§ 1397aa et seq.), respectively, of chapter 7 of Title 42. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1305 of Title 42 and Tables.
Section 311(b)(1)(C) of the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009, referred to in subsec. (f)(3)(B)(ii), is section 311(b)(1)(C) of Pub. L. 111–3, which is set out as a note under this section.
The Public Health Service Act, referred to in subsec. (g)(3), is act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, 58 Stat. 682. Part A of title XXVII of the Act is classified generally to part A (§ 300gg et seq.) of subchapter XXV of chapter 6A of Title 42. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 201 of Title 42 and Tables.

Amendments2011—Subsec. (c)(2)(C). Pub. L. 112–40 substituted “January 1, 2014” for “February 13, 2011” in introductory provisions.
2010—Subsec. (c)(2)(C). Pub. L. 111–344 substituted “February 13, 2011” for “January 1, 2011” in introductory provisions.
2009—Subsec. (c)(2)(C). Pub. L. 111–5 added subpar. (C).
Subsec. (f)(3). Pub. L. 111–3 added par. (3).
1996—Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 104–204 made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to section 1191b of this title.

Effective Date of 2011 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 112–40 applicable to plan years beginning after Feb. 12, 2011, with transitional rules, see section 242(b) of Pub. L. 112–40, set out as a note under section 9801 of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

Effective Date of 2010 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 111–344 applicable to plan years beginning after Dec. 31, 2010, see section 114(d) of Pub. L. 111–344, set out as a note under section 9801 of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

Effective Date of 2009 AmendmentExcept as otherwise provided and subject to certain applicability provisions, amendment by Pub. L. 111–5 effective upon the expiration of the 90-day period beginning on Feb. 17, 2009, see section 1891 of Pub. L. 111–5, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2009 Amendment note under section 2271 of Title 19, Customs Duties.
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–5 applicable to plan years beginning after Feb. 17, 2009, see section 1899D(d) of Pub. L. 111–5, set out as a note under section 9801 of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.
Amendment by Pub. L. 111–3 effective Apr. 1, 2009, and applicable to child health assistance and medical assistance provided on or after that date, with certain exceptions, see section 3 of Pub. L. 111–3, set out as an Effective Date note under section 1396 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.

Effective Date of 1996 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 104–204 applicable with respect to group health plans for plan years beginning on and after Jan. 1, 1998, see section 603(c) of Pub. L. 104–204, set out as a note under section 1003 of this title.

Effective DatePub. L. 104–191, title I, § 101(g), Aug. 21, 1996, 110 Stat. 1953, provided that:
“(1) In general.—Except as provided in this section, this section [enacting this part and amending sections 1003, 1021, 1022, 1024, 1132, 1136, and 1144 of this title] (and the amendments made by this section) shall apply with respect to group health plans for plan years beginning after June 30, 1997.

“(2) Determination of creditable coverage.—“(A) Period of coverage.—“(i) In general.—Subject to clause (ii), no period before July 1, 1996, shall be taken into account under part 7 of subtitle B of title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (as added by this section) [this part] in determining creditable coverage.

“(ii) Special rule for certain periods.—The Secretary of Labor, consistent with section 104 [42 U.S.C. 300gg–92 note], shall provide for a process whereby individuals who need to establish creditable coverage for periods before July 1, 1996, and who would have such coverage credited but for clause (i) may be given credit for creditable coverage for such periods through the presentation of documents or other means.


“(B) Certifications, etc.—“(i) In general.—Subject to clauses (ii) and (iii), subsection (e) of section 701 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 [29 U.S.C. 1181(e)](as added by this section) shall apply to events occurring after June 30, 1996.

“(ii) No certification required to be provided before june 1, 1997.—In no case is a certification required to be provided under such subsection before June 1, 1997.

“(iii) Certification only on written request for events occurring before october 1, 1996.—In the case of an event occurring after June 30, 1996, and before October 1, 1996, a certification is not required to be provided under such subsection unless an individual (with respect to whom the certification is otherwise required to be made) requests such certification in writing.


“(C) Transitional rule.—In the case of an individual who seeks to establish creditable coverage for any period for which certification is not required because it relates to an event occurring before June 30, 1996—“(i) the individual may present other credible evidence of such coverage in order to establish the period of creditable coverage; and

“(ii) a group health plan and a health insurance issuer shall not be subject to any penalty or enforcement action with respect to the plan’s or issuer’s crediting (or not crediting) such coverage if the plan or issuer has sought to comply in good faith with the applicable requirements under the amendments made by this section [enacting this part and amending sections 1003, 1021, 1022, 1024, 1132, 1136, and 1144 of this title].



“(3) Special rule for collective bargaining agreements.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), in the case of a group health plan maintained pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements between employee representatives and one or more employers ratified before the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 21, 1996], part 7 of subtitle B of title I of Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 [this part] (other than section 701(e) thereof [29 U.S.C. 1181(e)]) shall not apply to plan years beginning before the later of—“(A) the date on which the last of the collective bargaining agreements relating to the plan terminates (determined without regard to any extension thereof agreed to after the date of the enactment of this Act), or

“(B) July 1, 1997.


For purposes of subparagraph (A), any plan amendment made pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement relating to the plan which amends the plan solely to conform to any requirement of such part shall not be treated as a termination of such collective bargaining agreement.

“(4) Timely regulations.—The Secretary of Labor, consistent with section 104 [42 U.S.C. 300gg–92 note], shall first issue by not later than April 1, 1997, such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the amendments made by this section.

“(5) Limitation on actions.—No enforcement action shall be taken, pursuant to the amendments made by this section, against a group health plan or health insurance issuer with respect to a violation of a requirement imposed by such amendments before January 1, 1998, or, if later, the date of issuance of regulations referred to in paragraph (4), if the plan or issuer has sought to comply in good faith with such requirements.”




Working Group to Develop Model Coverage Coordination Disclosure FormPub. L. 111–3, title III, § 311(b)(1)(C), Feb. 4, 2009, 123 Stat. 68, provided that:
“(i) Medicaid, chip, and employer-sponsored coverage coordination working group.—“(I) In general.—Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Feb. 4, 2009], the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of Labor shall jointly establish a Medicaid, CHIP, and Employer-Sponsored Coverage Coordination Working Group (in this subparagraph referred to as the ‘Working Group’). The purpose of the Working Group shall be to develop the model coverage coordination disclosure form described in subclause (II) and to identify the impediments to the effective coordination of coverage available to families that include employees of employers that maintain group health plans and members who are eligible for medical assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.] or child health assistance or other health benefits coverage under title XXI of such Act [42 U.S.C. 1397aa et seq.].

“(II) Model coverage coordination disclosure form described.—The model form described in this subclause is a form for plan administrators of group health plans to complete for purposes of permitting a State to determine the availability and cost-effectiveness of the coverage available under such plans to employees who have family members who are eligible for premium assistance offered under a State plan under title XIX or XXI of such Act and to allow for coordination of coverage for enrollees of such plans. Such form shall provide the following information in addition to such other information as the Working Group determines appropriate:“(aa) A determination of whether the employee is eligible for coverage under the group health plan.

“(bb) The name and contract information of the plan administrator of the group health plan.

“(cc) The benefits offered under the plan.

“(dd) The premiums and cost-sharing required under the plan.

“(ee) Any other information relevant to coverage under the plan.



“(ii) Membership.—The Working Group shall consist of not more than 30 members and shall be composed of representatives of—“(I) the Department of Labor;

“(II) the Department of Health and Human Services;

“(III) State directors of the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act;

“(IV) State directors of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program under title XXI of the Social Security Act;

“(V) employers, including owners of small businesses and their trade or industry representatives and certified human resource and payroll professionals;

“(VI) plan administrators and plan sponsors of group health plans (as defined in section 607(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 [29 U.S.C. 1167(1)]);

“(VII) health insurance issuers; and

“(VIII) children and other beneficiaries of medical assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act or child health assistance or other health benefits coverage under title XXI of such Act.


“(iii) Compensation.—The members of the Working Group shall serve without compensation.

“(iv) Administrative support.—The Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Labor shall jointly provide appropriate administrative support to the Working Group, including technical assistance. The Working Group may use the services and facilities of either such Department, with or without reimbursement, as jointly determined by such Departments.

“(v) Report.—“(I) Report by working group to the secretaries.—Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Working Group shall submit to the Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Health and Human Services the model form described in clause (i)(II) along with a report containing recommendations for appropriate measures to address the impediments to the effective coordination of coverage between group health plans and the State plans under titles XIX and XXI of the Social Security Act.

“(II) Report by secretaries to the congress.—Not later than 2 months after receipt of the report pursuant to subclause (I), the Secretaries shall jointly submit a report to each House of the Congress regarding the recommendations contained in the report under such subclause.


“(vi) Termination.—The Working Group shall terminate 30 days after the date of the issuance of its report under clause (v).”



[For definitions of “CHIP” and “Medicaid” as used in section 311(b)(1)(C) of Pub. L. 111–3, set out above, see section 1(c)(1), (2) of Pub. L. 111–3, set out as a Definitions note under section 1396 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.]

Implementation of 2009 AmendmentPub. L. 111–3, title III, § 311(b)(1)(D), Feb. 4, 2009, 123 Stat. 69, provided that: “The Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall develop the initial model notices under section 701(f)(3)(B)(i)(II) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 [29 U.S.C. 1181(f)(3)(B)(i)(II)], and the Secretary of Labor shall provide such notices to employers, not later than the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Feb. 4, 2009], and each employer shall provide the initial annual notices to such employer’s employees beginning with the first plan year that begins after the date on which such initial model notices are first issued. The model coverage coordination disclosure form developed under subparagraph (C) [set out above] shall apply with respect to requests made by States beginning with the first plan year that begins after the date on which such model coverage coordination disclosure form is first issued.”



