§ 3914. Materials development and methods research for mathematics, science, and engineering(a) Authorization to award competitive grants; covered institutions, businesses, etc.; purposesThe Foundation is authorized, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, to award competitive grants to institutions of higher education, businesses, nonprofit private organizations, local education agencies, professional engineering and scientific associations, museums, libraries, public broadcasting entities (as defined in section 397(11) of title 47), and appropriate State agencies—(1) for instructional curriculum improvement and faculty development in mathematics, science, and engineering;

(2) for programs designed to enhance public understanding of mathematics, science, and engineering, including the use of public broadcasting entities; and

(3) for research on methods of instruction and educational programs in mathematics, science, engineering, and critical foreign languages.


(b) Scope of studiesStudies conducted under subsection (a)(3) of this section may include—(1) teaching and learning research and its application to local and private sector instructional materials development and to improved teacher training programs;

(2) research on the use of local and informal science education activities;

(3) research on recruitment, retention, and improvement of mathematics, science, engineering, and critical languages faculties; and

(4) analysis of materials and methods for mathematics, science, and engineering education used in other countries and their potential application in the United States.


(c) Matching grant requirementsFunds awarded for such competitive grants shall be expended through a system requiring matching of the grant. The minimum amount required as a match shall be equal to a percentage of the grant that is determined by the Foundation. Funds made available for matching purposes may include in-kind services or other resources.


(d) Materials or methods research application requirementsIn making grant applications for materials or methods research for the purposes described in subsections (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section, the Foundation shall assure the involvement of appropriate State or local education agencies in the case of applications submitted by other entities described in subsection (a) of this section, or that one or more of such other entities will be consulted in the case of applications submitted by State or local education agencies.


(Pub. L. 98–377, title I, § 104, as added Pub. L. 99–159, title II, § 201, Nov. 22, 1985, 99 Stat. 895.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 3914, Pub. L. 98–377, title I, § 114, Aug. 11, 1984, 98 Stat. 1269, related to cooperation with business concerns, prior to the general revision of this subchapter by section 201 of Pub. L. 99–159. See section 3913(c) of this title.


