§ 5965. Cooperative Threat Reduction Program authority for urgent threat reduction activities(a) In generalSubject to the notification requirement under subsection (b), not more than 10 percent of the total amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in any fiscal year for the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program of the Department of Defense may be expended, notwithstanding any other law, for activities described under subsection (b)(1)(B).


(b) Determination and notice(1) DeterminationThe Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Energy, may make a written determination that—(A) threats arising from the proliferation of chemical, nuclear, and biological weapons or weapons-related materials, technologies, and expertise must be addressed urgently;

(B) certain provisions of law would unnecessarily impede the Secretary’s ability to carry out activities of the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program of the Department of Defense to address such threats; and

(C) it is necessary to expend amounts described in subsection (a) to carry out such activities.


(2) Notice requiredNot later than 15 days before obligating or expending funds under the authority provided in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of the determination made under paragraph (1). The notice shall include—(A) the determination;

(B) the activities to be undertaken by the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program;

(C) the expected time frame for such activities; and

(D) the expected costs of such activities.



(c) Appropriate congressional committeesIn this section, the term “appropriate congressional committees” means—(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and

(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.


(Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title XIII, § 1305, Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2559.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, and not as part of the Cooperative Threat Reduction Act of 1993 which comprises this chapter.


Definition of Cooperative Threat Reduction Programs for Purposes of Pub. L. 111–84
For definition of Cooperative Threat Reduction programs, see section 1301(a) of Pub. L. 111–84, set out as a note under section 5964 of this title.


