“SEC. 5308. ROAD WEATHER RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.“(a) Establishment.—The Secretary [of Transportation] shall establish a road weather research and development program to—“(1) maximize use of available road weather information and technologies;

“(2) expand road weather research and development efforts to enhance roadway safety, capacity, and efficiency while minimizing environmental impacts; and

“(3) promote technology transfer of effective road weather scientific and technological advances.


“(b) Stakeholder Input.—In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the National Science Foundation, the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, nonprofit organizations, and the private sector.

“(c) Contents.—The program established under this section shall solely carry out research and development called for in the National Research Council’s report entitled ‘A Research Agenda for Improving Road Weather Services’. Such research and development includes—“(1) integrating existing observational networks and data management systems for road weather applications;

“(2) improving weather modeling capabilities and forecast tools, such as the road surface and atmospheric interface;

“(3) enhancing mechanisms for communicating road weather information to users, such as transportation officials and the public; and

“(4) integrating road weather technologies into an information infrastructure.


“(d) Activities.—In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall—“(1) enable efficient technology transfer;

“(2) improve education and training of road weather information users, such as State and local transportation officials and private sector transportation contractors; and

“(3) coordinate with transportation weather research programs in other modes, such as aviation.


“(e) Funding.—“(1) In general.—In awarding funds under this section, the Secretary shall give preference to applications with significant matching funds from non-Federal sources.

“(2) Funds for road weather research and development.—Of the amounts made available by section 5101(a)(5) of this Act [119 Stat. 1779], $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2009 shall be available to carry out this section.


