§ 3303. State leadership activities(a) Activities(1) RequiredEach eligible agency shall use funds made available under section 3302(a)(2) of this title for the following adult education and literacy activities to develop or enhance the adult education system of the State or outlying area:(A) The alignment of adult education and literacy activities with other core programs and one-stop partners, including eligible providers, to implement the strategy identified in the unified State plan under section 3112 of this title or the combined State plan under section 3113 of this title, including the development of career pathways to provide access to employment and training services for individuals in adult education and literacy activities.

(B) The establishment or operation of high quality professional development programs to improve the instruction provided pursuant to local activities required under section 3321(b) of this title, including instruction incorporating the essential components of reading instruction as such components relate to adults, instruction related to the specific needs of adult learners, instruction provided by volunteers or by personnel of a State or outlying area, and dissemination of information about models and promising practices related to such programs.

(C) The provision of technical assistance to eligible providers of adult education and literacy activities receiving funds under this subchapter, including—(i) the development and dissemination of instructional and programmatic practices based on the most rigorous or scientifically valid research available and appropriate, in reading, writing, speaking, mathematics, English language acquisition programs, distance education, and staff training;

(ii) the role of eligible providers as a one-stop partner to provide access to employment, education, and training services; and

(iii) assistance in the use of technology, including for staff training, to eligible providers, especially the use of technology to improve system efficiencies.


(D) The monitoring and evaluation of the quality of, and the improvement in, adult education and literacy activities and the dissemination of information about models and proven or promising practices within the State.


(2) Permissible activitiesEach eligible agency may use funds made available under section 3302(a)(2) of this title for 1 or more of the following adult education and literacy activities:(A) The support of State or regional networks of literacy resource centers.

(B) The development and implementation of technology applications, translation technology, or distance education, including professional development to support the use of instructional technology.

(C) Developing and disseminating curricula, including curricula incorporating the essential components of reading instruction as such components relate to adults.

(D) Developing content and models for integrated education and training and career pathways.

(E) The provision of assistance to eligible providers in developing and implementing programs that achieve the objectives of this subchapter and in measuring the progress of those programs in achieving such objectives, including meeting the State adjusted levels of performance described in section 3141(b)(3) of this title.

(F) The development and implementation of a system to assist in the transition from adult education to postsecondary education, including linkages with postsecondary educational institutions or institutions of higher education.

(G) Integration of literacy and English language instruction with occupational skill training, including promoting linkages with employers.

(H) Activities to promote workplace adult education and literacy activities.

(I) Identifying curriculum frameworks and aligning rigorous content standards that—(i) specify what adult learners should know and be able to do in the areas of reading and language arts, mathematics, and English language acquisition; and

(ii) take into consideration the following:(I) State adopted academic standards.

(II) The current adult skills and literacy assessments used in the State or outlying area.

(III) The primary indicators of performance described in section 3141 of this title.

(IV) Standards and academic requirements for enrollment in nonremedial, for-credit courses in postsecondary educational institutions or institutions of higher education supported by the State or outlying area.

(V) Where appropriate, the content of occupational and industry skill standards widely used by business and industry in the State or outlying area.



(J) Developing and piloting of strategies for improving teacher quality and retention.

(K) The development and implementation of programs and services to meet the needs of adult learners with learning disabilities or English language learners, which may include new and promising assessment tools and strategies that are based on scientifically valid research, where appropriate, and identify the needs and capture the gains of such students at the lowest achievement levels.

(L) Outreach to instructors, students, and employers.

(M) Other activities of statewide significance that promote the purpose of this subchapter.



(b) CollaborationIn carrying out this section, eligible agencies shall collaborate where possible, and avoid duplicating efforts, in order to maximize the impact of the activities described in subsection (a).


(c) State-imposed requirementsWhenever a State or outlying area implements any rule or policy relating to the administration or operation of a program authorized under this subchapter that has the effect of imposing a requirement that is not imposed under Federal law (including any rule or policy based on a State or outlying area interpretation of a Federal statute, regulation, or guideline), the State or outlying area shall identify, to eligible providers, the rule or policy as being imposed by the State or outlying area.


(Pub. L. 113–128, title II, § 223, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1615.)

Effective DateSection effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 [probably July 1, 2015], see section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128, set out as a note under section 3101 of this title.


