“SEC. 302. ASSISTANCE TO SUPPORT DEMOCRACY FOR IRAN.“(a) Authorization.—“(1) In general.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President is authorized to provide financial and political assistance (including the award of grants) to foreign and domestic individuals, organizations, and entities working for the purpose of supporting and promoting democracy for Iran. Such assistance may include the award of grants to eligible independent pro-democracy radio and television broadcasting organizations that broadcast into Iran.

“(2) Limitation on assistance.—In accordance with the rule of construction described in subsection (b) of section 301, none of the funds authorized under this section shall be used to support the use of force against Iran.


“(b) Eligibility for Assistance.—Financial and political assistance under this section should be provided only to an individual, organization, or entity that—“(1) officially opposes the use of violence and terrorism and has not been designated as a foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189) at any time during the preceding four years;

“(2) advocates the adherence by Iran to nonproliferation regimes for nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons and materiel;

“(3) is dedicated to democratic values and supports the adoption of a democratic form of government in Iran;

“(4) is dedicated to respect for human rights, including the fundamental equality of women;

“(5) works to establish equality of opportunity for people; and

“(6) supports freedom of the press, freedom of speech, freedom of association, and freedom of religion.


“(c) Funding.—The President may provide assistance under this section using—“(1) funds available to the Middle East Partnership Initiative (MEPI), the Broader Middle East and North Africa Initiative, and the Human Rights and Democracy Fund; and

“(2) amounts made available pursuant to the authorization of appropriations under subsection (g).


“(d) Notification.—Not later than 15 days before each obligation of assistance under this section, and in accordance with the procedures under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2394–l), the President shall notify the Committee on International Relations [now Committee on Foreign Affairs] and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.

“(e) Sense of Congress Regarding Diplomatic Assistance.—It is the sense of Congress that—“(1) support for a transition to democracy in Iran should be expressed by United States representatives and officials in all appropriate international fora;

“(2) officials and representatives of the United States should—“(A) strongly and unequivocally support indigenous efforts in Iran calling for free, transparent, and democratic elections; and

“(B) draw international attention to violations by the Government of Iran of human rights, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly, and freedom of the press.



“(f) Duration.—The authority to provide assistance under this section shall expire on December 31, 2011.

“(g) Authorization of Appropriations.—There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of State such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.”

