§ 941g. Tribal constitution and governance(a) Indian Reorganization ActIf the Tribe so elects, it may organize under the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 461 et seq.; commonly referred to as the “Indian Reorganization Act”). The Tribe shall be subject to such Act except to the extent such sections are inconsistent with this subchapter.


(b) Adoption of new tribal constitutionWithin 180 days after the effective date of this subchapter, the Executive Committee shall draft and distribute to each Member eligible to vote under the tribal constitution in effect on the effective date of this subchapter, a proposed constitution and bylaws for the Tribe together with a brief, impartial description of the proposed constitution and bylaws and a notice of the date, time and location of the election under this subsection. Not sooner than 30 days or later than 90 days after the distribution of the proposed constitution, the Executive Committee shall conduct a secret-ballot election to adopt a new constitution and bylaws.


(c) Majority vote for adoption; procedure in event of failure to adopt proposed constitution(1) The tribal constitution and bylaws shall be ratified and adopted if—(A) not less than 30 percent of those entitled to vote do vote; and

(B) approved by a majority of those actually voting.


(2) If in any such election such majority does not approve the adoption of the proposed constitution and bylaws, the Executive Committee shall prepare another proposed constitution and bylaws and present it to the Tribe in the same manner provided in this section for the first constitution and bylaws. Such new proposed constitution and bylaws shall be distributed to the eligible voters of the Tribe no later than 180 days after the date of the election in which the first proposed constitution and bylaws failed of adoption. An election on the question of the adoption of the new proposal of the Executive Committee shall be conducted in the same manner provided in subsection (b) of this section for the election on the first proposed constitution and bylaws.


(d) Election of tribal officersWithin 120 days after the Tribe ratifies and adopts a constitution and bylaws, the Executive Committee shall conduct an election by secret ballot for the purpose of electing tribal officials as provided in the constitution and bylaws. Subsequent elections shall be held in accordance with the Tribe’s constitution and bylaws.


(e) Extension of timeAny time periods prescribed in subsections (b) and (c) of this section may be altered by written agreement between the Executive Committee and the Secretary.


(Pub. L. 103–116, § 9, Oct. 27, 1993, 107 Stat. 1125.)


References in TextThe Indian Reorganization Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is act June 18, 1934, ch. 576, 48 Stat. 984, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 461 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 461 of this title and Tables.
For the effective date of this subchapter, referred to in subsec. (b), see Effective Date note set out under section 941 of this title.


