§ 1161j. Improving science, technology, engineering, and mathematics education with a focus on Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian students(a) PurposeThe purposes of this section are—(1) to develop or expand programs for the development of professionals in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics; and

(2) to focus resources on meeting the educational and cultural needs of Alaska Natives and Native Hawaiians.


(b) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Alaska NativeThe term “Alaska Native” has the meaning given such term in section 7546 of this title.


(2) Eligible partnershipThe term “eligible partnership” means a partnership that includes—(A) one or more colleges, schools, or departments of engineering;

(B) one or more colleges of science or mathematics;

(C) one or more institutions of higher education that offer two-year degrees; and

(D) one or more private entities that—(i) conduct career awareness activities showcasing local technology professionals;

(ii) encourage students to pursue education in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics from elementary school through postsecondary education, and careers in those fields, with the assistance of local technology professionals;

(iii) develop internships, apprenticeships, and mentoring programs in partnership with relevant industries; and

(iv) assist with placement of interns and apprentices.



(3) Institution of higher educationThe term “institution of higher education” has the meaning given such term in section 1001(a) of this title.


(4) Native HawaiianThe term “Native Hawaiian” has the meaning given the term in section 7517 of this title.



(c) Grant authorizedFrom the amounts appropriated to carry out this section under subsection (i), the Secretary is authorized to award a grant to an eligible partnership to enable the eligible partnership to expand programs for the development of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics professionals, from elementary school through postsecondary education, including existing programs for Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian students.


(d) Uses of fundsGrant funds under this section shall be used for one or more of the following:(1) Development or implementation of cultural, social, or educational transition programs to assist students to transition into college life and academics in order to increase such students’ retention rates in the fields of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics, with a focus on Alaska Native or Native Hawaiian students.

(2) Development or implementation of academic support or supplemental educational programs to increase the graduation rates of students in the fields of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics, with a focus on Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian students.

(3) Development or implementation of internship programs, carried out in coordination with educational institutions and private entities, to prepare students for careers in the fields of science, technology, engineering, or mathematics, with a focus on programs that serve Alaska Native or Native Hawaiian students.

(4) Such other activities as are consistent with the purpose of this section.


(e) ApplicationEach eligible partnership that desires a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.


(f) PriorityIn awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to an eligible partnership that, on the day before August 14, 2008, provides one or more programs in which 30 percent or more of the program participants are Alaska Native or Native Hawaiian.


(g) Period of grantA grant under this section shall be awarded for a period of five years.


(h) Evaluation and reportEach eligible partnership that receives a grant under this section shall conduct an evaluation to determine the effectiveness of the programs funded under the grant and shall provide a report regarding the evaluation to the Secretary not later than six months after the end of the grant period.


(i) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2009 and each of the five succeeding fiscal years.


(Pub. L. 89–329, title VIII, § 819, as added Pub. L. 110–315, title VIII, § 801, Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3402; amended Pub. L. 111–39, title VIII, § 801(4), July 1, 2009, 123 Stat. 1955.)

Amendments2009—Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 111–39 inserted period at end.

Effective Date of 2009 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 111–39 effective as if enacted on the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–315 (Aug. 14, 2008), see section 3 of Pub. L. 111–39, set out as a note under section 1001 of this title.


