§ 7263b. Uses of funds(a) Required usesA recipient shall use funds under this subpart for—(1) creating or expanding community technology centers that expand access to information technology and related training for disadvantaged residents of distressed urban or rural communities; and

(2) evaluating the effectiveness of the project.


(b) Permissible usesA recipient may use funds under this subpart for activities, described in its application, that carry out the purposes of this subpart, such as—(1) supporting a center coordinator, and staff, to supervise instruction and build community partnerships;

(2) acquiring equipment, networking capabilities, and infrastructure to carry out the project; and

(3) developing and providing services and activities for community residents that provide access to computers, information technology, and the use of such technology in support of preschool preparation, academic achievement, educational development, and workforce development, such as the following:(A) After-school activities in which children and youths use software that provides academic enrichment and assistance with homework, develop their technical skills, explore the Internet, and participate in multimedia activities, including web page design and creation.

(B) Adult education and family literacy activities through technology and the Internet, including—(i) General Education Development, Language Instruction Educational Programs, and adult basic education classes or programs;

(ii) introduction to computers;

(iii) intergenerational activities; and

(iv) educational development opportunities.


(C) Career development and job preparation activities, such as—(i) training in basic and advanced computer skills;

(ii) resume writing workshops; and

(iii) access to databases of employment opportunities, career information, and other online materials.


(D) Small business activities, such as—(i) computer-based training for basic entrepreneurial skills and electronic commerce; and

(ii) access to information on business start-up programs that is available online, or from other sources.


(E) Activities that provide home access to computers and technology, such as assistance and services to promote the acquisition, installation, and use of information technology in the home through low-cost solutions such as networked computers, web-based television devices, and other technology.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5513, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1844.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 7264, Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5404 [5304], as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3703, which related to application for school dropout assistance, was omitted in the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110. See section 6561b of this title.


