§ 1903. Public identification of significant foreign narcotics traffickers and required reports(a) Provision of information to the PresidentThe Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of State, and the Director of Central Intelligence shall consult among themselves and provide the appropriate and necessary information to enable the President to submit the report under subsection (b) of this section. This information shall also be provided to the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy.


(b) Public identification and sanctioning of significant foreign narcotics traffickersNot later than June 1, 2000, and not later than June 1 of each year thereafter, the President shall submit a report to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committees on the Judiciary, International Relations, Armed Services, and Ways and Means of the House of Representatives; and to the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committees on the Judiciary, Foreign Relations, Armed Services, and Finance of the Senate—(1) identifying publicly the foreign persons that the President determines are appropriate for sanctions pursuant to this chapter; and

(2) detailing publicly the President’s intent to impose sanctions upon these significant foreign narcotics traffickers pursuant to this chapter.


The report required in this subsection shall not include information on persons upon which United States sanctions imposed under this chapter, or otherwise on account of narcotics trafficking, are already in effect.

(c) Unclassified report requiredThe report required by subsection (b) of this section shall be submitted in unclassified form and made available to the public.


(d) Classified report(1) Not later than July 1, 2000, and not later than July 1 of each year thereafter, the President shall provide the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate with a report in classified form describing in detail the status of the sanctions imposed under this chapter, including the personnel and resources directed towards the imposition of such sanctions during the preceding fiscal year, and providing background information with respect to newly-identified significant foreign narcotics traffickers and their activities.

(2) Such classified report shall describe actions the President intends to undertake or has undertaken with respect to such significant foreign narcotics traffickers.

(3) The report required under this subsection is in addition to the President’s obligations to keep the intelligence committees of Congress fully and currently informed pursuant to the provisions of the National Security Act of 1947.


(e) Exclusion of certain information(1) IntelligenceNotwithstanding any other provision of this section, the reports described in subsections (b) and (d) of this section shall not disclose the identity of any person, if the Director of Central Intelligence determines that such disclosure could compromise an intelligence operation, activity, source, or method of the United States.


(2) Law enforcementNotwithstanding any other provision of this section, the reports described in subsections (b) and (d) of this section shall not disclose the name of any person if the Attorney General, in coordination as appropriate with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Secretary of the Treasury, determines that such disclosure could reasonably be expected to—(A) compromise the identity of a confidential source, including a State, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution that furnished information on a confidential basis;

(B) jeopardize the integrity or success of an ongoing criminal investigation or prosecution;

(C) endanger the life or physical safety of any person; or

(D) cause substantial harm to physical property.



(f) Notification required(1) Whenever either the Director of Central Intelligence or the Attorney General makes a determination under subsection (e) of this section, the Director of Central Intelligence or the Attorney General shall notify the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, and explain the reasons for such determination.

(2) The notification required under this subsection shall be submitted to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate not later than July 1, 2000, and on an annual basis thereafter.


(g) Determinations not to apply sanctions(1) The President may waive the application to a significant foreign narcotics trafficker of any sanction authorized by this chapter if the President determines that the application of sanctions under this chapter would significantly harm the national security of the United States.

(2) When the President determines not to apply sanctions that are authorized by this chapter to any significant foreign narcotics trafficker, the President shall notify the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committees on the Judiciary, International Relations, Armed Services, and Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committees on the Judiciary, Foreign Relations, Armed Services, and Finance of the Senate not later than 21 days after making such determination.


(h) Changes in determinations to impose sanctions(1) Additional determinations(A) If at any time after the report required under subsection (b) of this section the President finds that a foreign person is a significant foreign narcotics trafficker and such foreign person has not been publicly identified in a report required under subsection (b) of this section, the President shall submit an additional public report containing the information described in subsection (b) of this section with respect to such foreign person to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committees on the Judiciary, International Relations, Armed Services, and Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committees on the Judiciary, Foreign Relations, Armed Services, and Finance of the Senate.

(B) The President may apply sanctions authorized under this chapter to the significant foreign narcotics trafficker identified in the report submitted under subparagraph (A) as if the trafficker were originally included in the report submitted pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.

(C) The President shall notify the Secretary of the Treasury of any determination made under this paragraph.


(2) Revocation of determination(A) Whenever the President finds that a foreign person that has been publicly identified as a significant foreign narcotics trafficker in the report required under subsection (b) of this section or this subsection no longer engages in those activities for which sanctions under this chapter may be applied, the President shall issue public notice of such a finding.

(B) Not later than the date of the public notice issued pursuant to subparagraph (A), the President shall notify, in writing and in classified or unclassified form, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committees on the Judiciary, International Relations, Armed Services, and Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committees on the Judiciary, Foreign Relations, Armed Services, and Finance of the Senate of actions taken under this paragraph and a description of the basis for such actions.



(Pub. L. 106–120, title VIII, § 804, Dec. 3, 1999, 113 Stat. 1626.)


References in TextThe National Security Act of 1947, referred to in subsec. (d)(3), is act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, 61 Stat. 495, which was formerly classified principally to chapter 15 (§ 401 et seq.) of Title 50, War and National Defense, prior to editorial reclassification in Title 50, and is now classified principally to chapter 44 (§ 3001 et seq.) of Title 50. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.


Change of Name
Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.
Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the intelligence community deemed to be a reference to the Director of National Intelligence. Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the Central Intelligence Agency deemed to be a reference to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. See section 1081(a), (b) of Pub. L. 108–458, set out as a note under section 3001 of Title 50, War and National Defense.


Delegation of Functions
For delegation of Congressional reporting functions of President under subsec. (d) of this section, see section 1 of Ex. Ord. No. 13313, July 31, 2003, 68 F.R. 46075, set out as a note under section 301 of Title 3, The President.


Delegation of Functions Under Section 804(h)(2)(A) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act
Memorandum of President of the United States, May 31, 2013, 78 F.R. 33943, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby delegate the functions conferred upon the President by section 804(h)(2)(A) of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (21 U.S.C. 1903(h)(2)(A)), to the Secretary of the Treasury.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.

Barack Obama.



