§ 2656. Management of foreign affairs
The Secretary of State shall perform such duties as shall from time to time be enjoined on or intrusted to him by the President relative to correspondences, commissions, or instructions to or with public ministers or consuls from the United States, or to negotiations with public ministers from foreign states or princes, or to memorials or other applications from foreign public ministers or other foreigners, or to such other matters respecting foreign affairs as the President of the United States shall assign to the Department, and he shall conduct the business of the Department in such manner as the President shall direct.
(R.S. § 202.)

Codification
R.S. § 202 derived from acts July 27, 1789, ch. 4, § 1, 1 Stat. 28; Sept. 15, 1789, ch. 14, § 1, 1 Stat. 68.
Section was formerly classified to section 156 of Title 5 prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, by Pub. L. 89–554, § 1, Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 378.


Delegation of Functions
Functions of President respecting certain facilities constructed and maintained on United States borders delegated to Secretary of State, see Ex. Ord. No. 11423, Aug. 16, 1968, 33 F.R. 11741, set out as a note under section 301 of Title 3, The President.

Presidential DirectiveNational Intelligence Authority and Central Intelligence Group, established by Presidential Directive, Feb. 1, 1946, 11 F.R. 1337, to coordinate Federal foreign intelligence activities, ceased to exist upon creation of Central Intelligence Agency; personnel, property and records of the group were transferred to the Agency; and unexpended funds of the group were made available to the Agency, by act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title I, § 102, 61 Stat. 497, formerly set out as section 403 of Title 50, War and National Defense. See Prior Provisions note under section 3023 of Title 50.

Strategy for the United States Relationship With Saudi ArabiaPub. L. 110–53, title XX, § 2043, Aug. 3, 2007, 121 Stat. 524, provided that:
“(a) Congressional Findings.—Congress finds that:“(1) The National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States concluded that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has ‘been a problematic ally in combating Islamic extremism. At the level of high policy, Saudi Arabia’s leaders cooperated with American diplomatic initiatives aimed at the Taliban or Pakistan before 9/11. At the same time, Saudi Arabia’s society was a place where al Qaeda raised money directly from individuals and through charities. It was the society that produced 15 of the 19 hijackers.’.

“(2) Saudi Arabia has an uneven record in the fight against terrorism, especially with respect to terrorist financing, support for radical madrassas, a lack of political outlets for its citizens, and restrictions on religious pluralism, that poses a threat to the security of the United States, the international community, and Saudi Arabia itself.

“(3) The National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States concluded that the ‘problems in the U.S.-Saudi relationship must be confronted, openly’. It recommended that the two countries build a relationship that includes a ‘shared commitment to political and economic reform . . . and a shared interest in greater tolerance and cultural respect, translating into a commitment to fight the violent extremists who foment hatred’.

“(4) The United States has a national security interest in working with the Government of Saudi Arabia to combat international terrorists that operate within that country or that operate outside Saudi Arabia with the support of citizens of Saudi Arabia.

“(5) The United States and Saudi Arabia established a Strategic Dialogue in 2005, which provides a framework for the two countries to discuss a range of bilateral issues at high levels, including counterterrorism policy and political and economic reforms.

“(6) It is in the national security interest of the United States to support the Government of Saudi Arabia in undertaking a number of political and economic reforms, including increasing anti-terrorism operations conducted by law enforcement agencies, providing more political and religious rights to its citizens, increasing the rights of women, engaging in comprehensive educational reform, enhancing monitoring of charitable organizations, and promulgating and enforcing domestic laws and regulation on terrorist financing.


“(b) Statement of Policy.—It is the policy of the United States—“(1) to engage with the Government of Saudi Arabia to openly confront the issue of terrorism, as well as other problematic issues such as the lack of political freedoms;

“(2) to enhance counterterrorism cooperation with the Government of Saudi Arabia; and

“(3) to support the efforts of the Government of Saudi Arabia to make political, economic, and social reforms, including greater religious freedom, throughout the country.


“(c) Progress in Counterterrorism and Other Cooperation.—“(1) Report.—Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 3, 2007], the President shall transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that—“(A) describes the long-term strategy of the United States—“(i) to engage with the Government of Saudi Arabia to facilitate political, economic, and social reforms, including greater religious freedom, that will enhance the ability of the Government of Saudi Arabia to combat international terrorism; and

“(ii) to work with the Government of Saudi Arabia to combat terrorism, including through effective measures to prevent and prohibit the financing of terrorists by Saudi institutions and citizens; and


“(B) provides an assessment of the progress made by Saudi Arabia since 2001 on the matters described in subparagraph (A), including—“(i) whether Saudi Arabia has become a party to the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism; and

“(ii) the activities and authority of the Saudi Nongovernmental National Commission for Relief and Charity Work Abroad.



“(2) Form.—The report required by paragraph (1) shall be transmitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex, if necessary.”




[For definition of “appropriate congressional committees” as used in section 2043 of Pub. L. 110–53, set out above, see section 2002 of Pub. L. 110–53, set out as a note under section 2151 of this title.]
[For assignment of functions of President under section 2043(c)(1) of Pub. L. 110–53, set out above, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Sept. 28, 2007, 72 F.R. 56871, set out as a note under section 2228 of this title.]

FindingsPub. L. 108–458, title VII, § 7101, Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3775, provided that: 
“Consistent with the report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, Congress makes the following findings:
“(1) Long-term success in the war on terrorism demands the use of all elements of national power, including diplomacy, military action, intelligence, covert action, law enforcement, economic policy, foreign aid, public diplomacy, and homeland defense.

“(2) To win the war on terrorism, the United States must assign to economic and diplomatic capabilities the same strategic priority that is assigned to military capabilities.

“(3) The legislative and executive branches of the Government of the United States must commit to robust, long-term investments in all of the tools necessary for the foreign policy of the United States to successfully accomplish the goals of the United States.

“(4) The investments referred to in paragraph (3) will require increased funding to United States foreign affairs programs in general, and to priority areas as described in this title [see Tables for classification] in particular.”




Comprehensive Coalition Strategy for Fighting TerrorismPub. L. 108–458, title VII, § 7117, Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3799, provided that:
“(a) Findings.—Consistent with the report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, Congress makes the following findings:“(1) Almost every aspect of the counterterrorism strategy of the United States relies on international cooperation.

“(2) Since September 11, 2001, the number and scope of United States Government contacts with foreign governments concerning counterterrorism have expanded significantly, but such contacts have often been ad hoc and not integrated as a comprehensive and unified approach to counterterrorism.


“(b) In General.—The Secretary of State is authorized in consultation with relevant United States Government agencies, to negotiate on a bilateral or multilateral basis, as appropriate, international agreements under which parties to an agreement work in partnership to address and interdict acts of international terrorism.

“(c) International Contact Group on Counterterrorism.—“(1) Sense of congress.—It is the sense of Congress that the President—“(A) should seek to engage the leaders of the governments of other countries in a process of advancing beyond separate and uncoordinated national counterterrorism strategies to develop with those other governments a comprehensive multilateral strategy to fight terrorism; and

“(B) to that end, should seek to establish an international counterterrorism policy contact group with the leaders of governments providing leadership in global counterterrorism efforts and governments of countries with sizable Muslim populations, to be used as a ready and flexible international means for discussing and coordinating the development of important counterterrorism policies by the participating governments.


“(2) Authority.—The President is authorized to establish an international counterterrorism policy contact group with the leaders of governments referred to in paragraph (1) for the following purposes:“(A) To meet annually, or more frequently as the President determines appropriate, to develop in common with such other governments important policies and a strategy that address the various components of international prosecution of the war on terrorism, including policies and a strategy that address military issues, law enforcement, the collection, analysis, and dissemination of intelligence, issues relating to interdiction of travel by terrorists, counterterrorism-related customs issues, financial issues, and issues relating to terrorist sanctuaries.

“(B) To address, to the extent (if any) that the President and leaders of other participating governments determine appropriate, long-term issues that can contribute to strengthening stability and security in the Middle East.”






International Agreements To Track and Curtail Terrorist Travel Through the Use of Fraudulently Obtained DocumentsPub. L. 108–458, title VII, § 7204, Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3814, provided that:
“(a) Findings.—Congress makes the following findings:“(1) International terrorists travel across international borders to raise funds, recruit members, train for operations, escape capture, communicate, and plan and carry out attacks.

“(2) The international terrorists who planned and carried out the attack on the World Trade Center on February 26, 1993, the attack on the embassies of the United States in Kenya and Tanzania on August 7, 1998, the attack on the USS Cole on October 12, 2000, and the attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001, traveled across international borders to plan and carry out these attacks.

“(3) The international terrorists who planned other attacks on the United States, including the plot to bomb New York City landmarks in 1993, the plot to bomb the New York City subway in 1997, and the millennium plot to bomb Los Angeles International Airport on December 31, 1999, traveled across international borders to plan and carry out these attacks.

“(4) Many of the international terrorists who planned and carried out large-scale attacks against foreign targets, including the attack in Bali, Indonesia, on October 11, 2002, and the attack in Madrid, Spain, on March 11, 2004, traveled across international borders to plan and carry out these attacks.

“(5) Throughout the 1990s, international terrorists, including those involved in the attack on the World Trade Center on February 26, 1993, the plot to bomb New York City landmarks in 1993, and the millennium plot to bomb Los Angeles International Airport on December 31, 1999, traveled on fraudulent passports and often had more than 1 passport.

“(6) Two of the September 11, 2001, hijackers were carrying passports that had been manipulated in a fraudulent manner.

“(7) The National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, (commonly referred to as the 9/11 Commission), stated that ‘Targeting travel is at least as powerful a weapon against terrorists as targeting their money.’.


“(b) International Agreements To Track and Curtail Terrorist Travel.—“(1) International agreement on lost, stolen, or falsified documents.—The President should lead efforts to track and curtail the travel of terrorists by supporting the drafting, adoption, and implementation of international agreements, and relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions to track and stop international travel by terrorists and other criminals through the use of lost, stolen, or falsified documents to augment United Nations and other international anti-terrorism efforts.

“(2) Contents of international agreement.—The President should seek, as appropriate, the adoption or full implementation of effective international measures to—“(A) share information on lost, stolen, and fraudulent passports and other travel documents for the purposes of preventing the undetected travel of persons using such passports and other travel documents that were obtained improperly;

“(B) establish and implement a real-time verification system of passports and other travel documents with issuing authorities;

“(C) share with officials at ports of entry in any such country information relating to lost, stolen, and fraudulent passports and other travel documents;

“(D) encourage countries—“(i) to criminalize—     “(I) the falsification or counterfeiting of travel documents or breeder documents for any purpose;

     “(II) the use or attempted use of false documents to obtain a visa or cross a border for any purpose;

     “(III) the possession of tools or implements used to falsify or counterfeit such documents;

     “(IV) the trafficking in false or stolen travel documents and breeder documents for any purpose;

     “(V) the facilitation of travel by a terrorist; and

     “(VI) attempts to commit, including conspiracies to commit, the crimes specified in subclauses (I) through (V);


“(ii) to impose significant penalties to appropriately punish violations and effectively deter the crimes specified in clause (i); and

“(iii) to limit the issuance of citizenship papers, passports, identification documents, and similar documents to persons—     “(I) whose identity is proven to the issuing authority;

     “(II) who have a bona fide entitlement to or need for such documents; and

     “(III) who are not issued such documents principally on account of a disproportional payment made by them or on their behalf to the issuing authority;



“(E) provide technical assistance to countries to help them fully implement such measures; and

“(F) permit immigration and border officials—“(i) to confiscate a lost, stolen, or falsified passport at ports of entry;

“(ii) to permit the traveler to return to the sending country without being in possession of the lost, stolen, or falsified passport; and

“(iii) to detain and investigate such traveler upon the return of the traveler to the sending country.



“(3) International civil aviation organization.—The United States shall lead efforts to track and curtail the travel of terrorists by supporting efforts at the International Civil Aviation Organization to continue to strengthen the security features of passports and other travel documents.


“(c) Report.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 17, 2004], and at least annually thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on progress toward achieving the goals described in subsection (b).

“(2) Termination.—Paragraph (1) shall cease to be effective when the President certifies to the Committee on International Relations [now Committee on Foreign Affairs] of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate that the goals described in subsection (b) have been fully achieved.”




[Functions of President under subsec. (c) of section 7204 of Pub. L. 108–458, set out above, assigned to Secretary of State by section 1 of Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 48633, set out as a note under section 301 of title 3, The President.]

East Timor Transition to IndependencePub. L. 107–228, div. A, title VI, subtitle C, Sept. 30, 2002, 116 Stat. 1399, provided that:
“SEC. 631. SHORT TITLE.“This subtitle may be cited as the ‘East Timor Transition to Independence Act of 2002’.

