§ 175a. Assistance to plant, area, and industrywide labor management committees(a) Establishment and operation of plant, area, and industrywide committees(1) The Service is authorized and directed to provide assistance in the establishment and operation of plant, area and industrywide labor management committees which—(A) have been organized jointly by employers and labor organizations representing employees in that plant, area, or industry; and

(B) are established for the purpose of improving labor management relationships, job security, organizational effectiveness, enhancing economic development or involving workers in decisions affecting their jobs including improving communication with respect to subjects of mutual interest and concern.


(2) The Service is authorized and directed to enter into contracts and to make grants, where necessary or appropriate, to fulfill its responsibilities under this section.


(b) Restrictions on grants, contracts, or other assistance(1) No grant may be made, no contract may be entered into and no other assistance may be provided under the provisions of this section to a plant labor management committee unless the employees in that plant are represented by a labor organization and there is in effect at that plant a collective bargaining agreement.

(2) No grant may be made, no contract may be entered into and no other assistance may be provided under the provisions of this section to an area or industrywide labor management committee unless its participants include any labor organizations certified or recognized as the representative of the employees of an employer participating in such committee. Nothing in this clause shall prohibit participation in an area or industrywide committee by an employer whose employees are not represented by a labor organization.

(3) No grant may be made under the provisions of this section to any labor management committee which the Service finds to have as one of its purposes the discouragement of the exercise of rights contained in section 157 of this title, or the interference with collective bargaining in any plant, or industry.


(c) Establishment of officeThe Service shall carry out the provisions of this section through an office established for that purpose.


(d) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the provisions of this section $10,000,000 for the fiscal year 1979, and such sums as may be necessary thereafter.


(June 23, 1947, ch. 120, title II, § 205A, as added Pub. L. 95–524, § 6(c)(2), Oct. 27, 1978, 92 Stat. 2020.)

Short TitleFor short title of section 6 of Pub. L. 95–524 as the Labor Management Cooperation Act of 1978, see Short Title of 1978 Amendment note set out under section 141 of this title.

Congressional Statement of PurposePub. L. 95–524, § 6(b), Oct. 27, 1978, 92 Stat. 2020, provided that: 
“It is the purpose of this section [enacting this section and amending sections 173 and 186 of this title]—
“(1) to improve communication between representatives of labor and management;

“(2) to provide workers and employers with opportunities to study and explore new and innovative joint approaches to achieving organizational effectiveness;

“(3) to assist workers and employers in solving problems of mutual concern not susceptible to resolution within the collective bargaining process;

“(4) to study and explore ways of eliminating potential problems which reduce the competitiveness and inhibit the economic development of the plant, area or industry;

“(5) to enhance the involvement of workers in making decisions that affect their working lives;

“(6) to expand and improve working relationships between workers and managers; and

“(7) to encourage free collective bargaining by establishing continuing mechanisms for communication between employers and their employees through Federal assistance to the formation and operation of labor management committees.”




Applicability to Collective Bargaining AgreementsPub. L. 95–524, § 6(e), Oct. 27, 1978, 92 Stat. 2021, provided that: “Nothing in this section or the amendments made by this section [enacting this section, amending sections 173 and 186 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section] shall affect the terms and conditions of any collective bargaining agreement whether in effect prior to or entered into after the date of enactment of this section [Oct. 27, 1978].”



