§ 1037. Prohibited acts(a)(1) No person shall buy, sell, or transport, or offer to buy or sell, or offer or receive for transportation, in any business in commerce any restricted eggs, capable of use as human food, except as authorized by regulations of the Secretary under such conditions as he may prescribe to assure that only eggs fit for human food are used for such purpose.

(2) No egg handler shall possess with intent to use, or use, any restricted eggs in the preparation of human food for commerce except that such eggs may be so possessed and used when authorized by regulations of the Secretary under such conditions as he may prescribe to assure that only eggs fit for human food are used for such purpose.


(b)(1) No person shall process any egg products for commerce at any plant except in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.

(2) No person shall buy, sell, or transport, or offer to buy or sell, or offer or receive for transportation, in commerce any egg products required to be inspected under this chapter unless they have been so inspected and are labeled and packaged in accordance with the requirements of section 1036 of this title.

(3) No operator of any official plant shall fail to comply with any requirements of section 1035(a) of this title or the regulations thereunder.

(4) No operator of any official plant shall allow any egg products to be moved from such plant if they are adulterated or misbranded and capable of use as human food.


(c) No egg handler shall possess any eggs after the eggs have been packed into a container that is destined for the ultimate consumer unless the eggs are stored and transported under refrigeration at an ambient temperature of no greater than 45 degrees Fahrenheit, as prescribed by rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary.

(d) No person shall violate any provision of section 1039, 1040 or 1046 of this title.

(e) No person shall—(1) manufacture, cast, print, lithograph, or otherwise make any device containing any official mark or simulation thereof, or any label bearing any such mark or simulation, or any form of official certificate or simulation thereof, except as authorized by the Secretary;

(2) forge or alter any official device, mark, or certificate;

(3) without authorization from the Secretary, use any official device, mark, or certificate, or simulation thereof, or detach, deface, or destroy any official device or mark; or use any labeling or container ordered to be withheld from use under section 1036 of this title after final judicial affirmance of such order or expiration of the time for appeal if no appeal is taken under said section;

(4) contrary to the regulations prescribed by the Secretary, fail to use, or to detach, deface, or destroy any official device, mark, or certificate;

(5) knowingly possess, without promptly notifying the Secretary or his representative, any official device or any counterfeit, simulated, forged, or improperly altered official certificate or any device or label, or any eggs or egg products bearing any counterfeit, simulated, forged, or improperly altered official mark;

(6) knowingly make any false statement in any shipper’s certificate or other nonofficial or official certificate provided for in the regulations prescribed by the Secretary;

(7) knowingly represent that any article has been inspected or exempted, under this chapter, when, in fact, it has, respectively, not been so inspected or exempted; and

(8) refuse access, at any reasonable time, to any representative of the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to any plant or other place of business subject to inspection under any provisions of this chapter.


(f) No person, while an official or employee of the United States Government or any State or local governmental agency, or thereafter, shall use to his own advantage, or reveal other than to the authorized representatives of the United States Government or any State or other government in their official capacity, or as ordered by a court in a judicial proceeding, any information acquired under the authority of this chapter concerning any matter which is entitled to protection as a trade secret.

(Pub. L. 91–597, § 8, Dec. 29, 1970, 84 Stat. 1626; Pub. L. 96–88, title V, § 509(b), Oct. 17, 1979, 93 Stat. 695; Pub. L. 102–237, title X, § 1012(c), Dec. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 1899.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1), (2), (e)(7), (8), and (f), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 91–597, Dec. 29, 1970, 84 Stat. 1620, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1031 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1991—Subsecs. (c) to (f). Pub. L. 102–237 added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsecs. (c) to (e) as (d) to (f), respectively.


Change of Name
“Secretary of Health and Human Services” substituted for “Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare” in subsec. (e)(8) pursuant to section 509(b) of Pub. L. 96–88, which is classified to section 3508(b) of Title 20, Education.

Effective Date of 1991 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 102–237 effective 12 months after promulgation of final implementing regulations, see section 1012(h) of Pub. L. 102–237, set out as a note under section 1034 of this title.


