§ 7442. Professional development for teachers and education professionals(a) PurposesThe purposes of this section are—(1) to increase the number of qualified Indian individuals in teaching or other education professions that serve Indian people;

(2) to provide training to qualified Indian individuals to enable such individuals to become teachers, administrators, teacher aides, social workers, and ancillary educational personnel; and

(3) to improve the skills of qualified Indian individuals who serve in the capacities described in paragraph (2).


(b) Eligible entitiesFor the purpose of this section, the term “eligible entity” means—(1) an institution of higher education, including an Indian institution of higher education;

(2) a State educational agency or local educational agency, in consortium with an institution of higher education;

(3) an Indian tribe or organization, in consortium with an institution of higher education; and

(4) a Bureau-funded school (as defined in section 2026 11 See References in Text note below. of title 25).


(c) Program authorizedThe Secretary is authorized to award grants to eligible entities having applications approved under this section to enable those entities to carry out the activities described in subsection (d) of this section.


(d) Authorized activities(1) In generalGrant funds under this section shall be used for activities to provide support and training for Indian individuals in a manner consistent with the purposes of this section. Such activities may include continuing programs, symposia, workshops, conferences, and direct financial support, and may include programs designed to train tribal elders and seniors.


(2) Special rules(A) Type of trainingFor education personnel, the training received pursuant to a grant under this section may be inservice or preservice training.


(B) ProgramFor individuals who are being trained to enter any field other than teaching, the training received pursuant to a grant under this section shall be in a program that results in a graduate degree.




(e) ApplicationEach eligible entity desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information, as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(f) Special ruleIn awarding grants under this section, the Secretary—(1) shall consider the prior performance of the eligible entity; and

(2) may not limit eligibility to receive a grant under this section on the basis of—(A) the number of previous grants the Secretary has awarded such entity; or

(B) the length of any period during which such entity received such grants.



(g) Grant periodEach grant under this section shall be awarded for a period of not more than 5 years.


(h) Service obligation(1) In generalThe Secretary shall require, by regulation, that an individual who receives training pursuant to a grant made under this section—(A) perform work—(i) related to the training received under this section; and

(ii) that benefits Indian people; or


(B) repay all or a prorated part of the assistance received.


(2) ReportingThe Secretary shall establish, by regulation, a reporting procedure under which a grant recipient under this section shall, not later than 12 months after the date of completion of the training, and periodically thereafter, provide information concerning compliance with the work requirement under paragraph (1).



(Pub. L. 89–10, title VII, § 7122, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title VII, § 701, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1922.)


References in TextSection 2026 of title 25, referred to in subsec. (b)(4), was omitted in the general amendment of chapter 22 of Title 25, Indians, by Pub. L. 107–110, title X, § 1042, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 2007. See section 2021 of Title 25.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 7122 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 7432 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


