§ 6601. Reorganization plan and report(a) Submission of plan and reportNot later than 60 days after October 21, 1998, the President shall transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a reorganization plan and report regarding—(1) the abolition of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, the United States Information Agency, and the United States International Development Cooperation Agency in accordance with this chapter;

(2) with respect to the Agency for International Development, the consolidation and streamlining of the Agency and the transfer of certain functions of the Agency to the Department in accordance with section 6581 of this title;

(3) the termination of functions of each covered agency as may be necessary to effectuate the reorganization under this chapter, and the termination of the affairs of each agency abolished under this chapter;

(4) the transfer to the Department of the functions and personnel of each covered agency consistent with the provisions of this chapter; and

(5) the consolidation, reorganization, and streamlining of the Department in connection with the transfer of such functions and personnel in order to carry out such functions.


(b) Covered agenciesThe agencies covered by this section are the following:(1) The United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.

(2) The United States Information Agency.

(3) The United States International Development Cooperation Agency.

(4) The Agency for International Development.


(c) Plan elementsThe plan transmitted under subsection (a) of this section shall contain, consistent with this chapter, such elements as the President deems appropriate, including elements that—(1) identify the functions of each covered agency that will be transferred to the Department under the plan;

(2) specify the steps to be taken by the Secretary of State to reorganize internally the functions of the Department, including the consolidation of offices and functions, that will be required under the plan in order to permit the Department to carry out the functions transferred to it under the plan;

(3) specify the funds available to each covered agency that will be transferred to the Department as a result of the transfer of functions of such agency to the Department;

(4) specify the proposed allocations within the Department of unexpended funds transferred in connection with the transfer of functions under the plan; and

(5) specify the proposed disposition of the property, facilities, contracts, records, and other assets and liabilities of each covered agency in connection with the transfer of the functions of such agency to the Department.


(d) Reorganization plan of Agency for International DevelopmentIn addition to applicable provisions of subsection (c) of this section, the reorganization plan transmitted under this section for the Agency for International Development—(1) may provide for the abolition of the Agency for International Development and the transfer of all its functions to the Department of State; or

(2) in lieu of the abolition and transfer of functions under paragraph (1)—(A) shall provide for the transfer to and consolidation within the Department of the functions set forth in section 6581 of this title; and

(B) may provide for additional consolidation, reorganization, and streamlining of AID, including—(i) the termination of functions and reductions in personnel of AID;

(ii) the transfer of functions of AID, and the personnel associated with such functions, to the Department; and

(iii) the consolidation, reorganization, and streamlining of the Department upon the transfer of such functions and personnel in order to carry out the functions transferred.




(e) Modification of planThe President may, on the basis of consultations with the appropriate congressional committees, modify or revise any part of the plan transmitted under subsection (a) of this section until that part of the plan becomes effective in accordance with subsection (g) of this section.


(f) ReportThe report accompanying the reorganization plan for the Department and the covered agencies submitted pursuant to this section shall describe the implementation of the plan and shall include—(1) a detailed description of—(A) the actions necessary or planned to complete the reorganization,

(B) the anticipated nature and substance of any orders, directives, and other administrative and operational actions which are expected to be required for completing or implementing the reorganization, and

(C) any preliminary actions which have been taken in the implementation process;


(2) the number of personnel and positions of each covered agency (including civil service personnel, Foreign Service personnel, and detailees) that are expected to be transferred to the Department, separated from service with such agency, or eliminated under the plan, and a projected schedule for such transfers, separations, and terminations;

(3) the number of personnel and positions of the Department (including civil service personnel, Foreign Service personnel, and detailees) that are expected to be transferred within the Department, separated from service with the Department, or eliminated under the plan, and a projected schedule for such transfers, separations, and terminations;

(4) a projected schedule for completion of the implementation process; and

(5) recommendations, if any, for legislation necessary to carry out changes made by this chapter relating to personnel and to incidental transfers.


(g) Effective date(1) In generalThe reorganization plan described in this section, including any modifications or revisions of the plan under subsection (e) of this section, shall become effective on the earlier of the date for the respective covered agency specified in paragraph (2) or the date announced by the President under paragraph (3).


(2) Statutory effective datesThe effective dates under this paragraph for the reorganization plan described in this section are the following:(A) April 1, 1999, with respect to functions of the Agency for International Development described in section 6581 of this title.

(B) April 1, 1999, with respect to the abolition of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and the United States International Development Cooperation Agency.

(C) October 1, 1999, with respect to the abolition of the United States Information Agency.


(3) Effective date by Presidential determinationAn effective date under this paragraph for a reorganization plan described in this section is such date as the President shall determine to be appropriate and announce by notice published in the Federal Register, which date may be not earlier than 90 calendar days after the President has transmitted the reorganization plan to the appropriate congressional committees pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.


(4) Statutory constructionNothing in this subsection may be construed to require the transfer of functions, personnel, records, balance of appropriations, or other assets of a covered agency on a single date.


(5) Supersedes existing lawParagraph (1) shall apply notwithstanding section 905(b) of title 5.



(h) PublicationThe reorganization plan described in this section shall be printed in the Federal Register after the date upon which it first becomes effective.


(Pub. L. 105–277, div. G, subdiv. A, title XVI, § 1601, Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–795.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1), (3), (4), (c), and (f)(5), was in the original “this subdivision”, meaning subdiv. A of div. G of Pub. L. 105–277, Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–765, known as the Foreign Affairs Agencies Consolidation Act of 1998. For complete classification of this subdivision to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6501 of this title and Tables.


Delegation of the Functions Vested in the President by Sections 1601(e) and 1601(g) of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998, as Enacted in Public Law 105–277
Memorandum of President of the United States, Mar. 31, 1999, 64 F.R. 17079, provided:
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, I hereby delegate to you the functions vested in the President by sections 1601(e) and 1601(g) of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998, as enacted in Public Law 105–277 [22 U.S.C. 6601(e), (g)].
The functions delegated by this memorandum may be redelegated as appropriate.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.

William J. Clinton.



