§ 4303. Office of Native American Business Development(a) In general(1) EstablishmentThere is established within the Department of Commerce an office known as the Office of Native American Business Development (referred to in this chapter as the “Office”).


(2) DirectorThe Office shall be headed by a Director, appointed by the Secretary, whose title shall be the Director of Native American Business Development (referred to in this chapter as the “Director”). The Director shall be compensated at a rate not to exceed level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5.



(b) Duties of the Secretary(1) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Director, shall ensure the coordination of Federal programs that provide assistance, including financial and technical assistance, to eligible entities for increased business, the expansion of trade by eligible entities, and economic development on Indian lands.


(2) Interagency coordinationThe Secretary, acting through the Director, shall coordinate Federal programs relating to Indian economic development, including any such program of the Department of the Interior, the Small Business Administration, the Department of Labor, or any other Federal agency charged with Indian economic development responsibilities.


(3) ActivitiesIn carrying out the duties described in paragraph (1), the Secretary, acting through the Director, shall ensure the coordination of, or, as appropriate, carry out—(A) Federal programs designed to provide legal, accounting, or financial assistance to eligible entities;

(B) market surveys;

(C) the development of promotional materials;

(D) the financing of business development seminars;

(E) the facilitation of marketing;

(F) the participation of appropriate Federal agencies or eligible entities in trade fairs;

(G) any activity that is not described in subparagraphs (A) through (F) that is related to the development of appropriate markets; and

(H) any other activity that the Secretary, in consultation with the Director, determines to be appropriate to carry out this section.


(4) AssistanceIn conjunction with the activities described in paragraph (3), the Secretary, acting through the Director, shall provide—(A) financial assistance, technical assistance, and administrative services to eligible entities to assist those entities with—(i) identifying and taking advantage of business development opportunities; and

(ii) compliance with appropriate laws and regulatory practices; and


(B) such other assistance as the Secretary, in consultation with the Director, determines to be necessary for the development of business opportunities for eligible entities to enhance the economies of Indian tribes.


(5) PrioritiesIn carrying out the duties and activities described in paragraphs (3) and (4), the Secretary, acting through the Director, shall give priority to activities that—(A) provide the greatest degree of economic benefits to Indians; and

(B) foster long-term stable economies of Indian tribes.


(6) ProhibitionThe Secretary may not provide under this section assistance for any activity related to the operation of a gaming activity on Indian lands pursuant to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act [25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.].



(Pub. L. 106–464, § 4, Nov. 7, 2000, 114 Stat. 2015.)


References in TextThe Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(6), is Pub. L. 100–497, Oct. 17, 1988, 102 Stat. 2467, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 29 (§ 2701 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2701 of this title and Tables.


