§ 6612. State applications(a) In generalFor a State to be eligible to receive a grant under this part, the State educational agency shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(b) ContentsEach application submitted under this section shall include the following:(1) A description of how the activities to be carried out by the State educational agency under this subpart will be based on a review of scientifically based research and an explanation of why the activities are expected to improve student academic achievement.

(2) A description of how the State educational agency will ensure that a local educational agency receiving a subgrant to carry out subpart 2 of this part will comply with the requirements of such subpart.

(3) A description of how the State educational agency will ensure that activities assisted under this subpart are aligned with challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards, State assessments, and State and local curricula.

(4) A description of how the State educational agency will use funds under this part to improve the quality of the State’s teachers and principals.

(5)(A) A description of how the State educational agency will coordinate professional development activities authorized under this part with professional development activities provided under other Federal, State, and local programs.

(B) A description of the comprehensive strategy that the State educational agency will use, as part of such coordination effort, to ensure that teachers are trained in the use of technology so that technology and applications of technology are effectively used in the classroom to improve teaching and learning in all curricula and academic subjects, as appropriate.


(6) A description of how the State educational agency will encourage the development of proven, innovative strategies to deliver intensive professional development programs that are both cost-effective and easily accessible, such as strategies that involve delivery through the use of technology, peer networks, and distance learning.

(7)(A) A description of how the State educational agency will ensure compliance with the requirements for professional development activities described in section 7801 of this title and how the activities to be carried out under the grant will be developed collaboratively and based on the input of teachers, principals, parents, administrators, paraprofessionals, and other school personnel.

(B) In the case of a State in which the State educational agency is not the entity responsible for teacher professional standards, certification, and licensing, an assurance that the State activities carried out under this subpart are carried out in conjunction with the entity responsible for such standards, certification, and licensing under State law.


(8) A description of how the State educational agency will ensure that the professional development (including teacher mentoring) needs of teachers will be met using funds under this subpart and subpart 2 of this part.

(9) A description of the State educational agency’s annual measurable objectives under section 6319(a)(2) of this title.

(10) A description of how the State educational agency will use funds under this part to meet the teacher and paraprofessional requirements of section 6319 of this title and how the State educational agency will hold local educational agencies accountable for meeting the annual measurable objectives described in section 6319(a)(2) of this title.

(11) In the case of a State that has a charter school law that exempts teachers from State certification and licensing requirements, the specific portion of the State law that provides for the exemption.

(12) An assurance that the State educational agency will comply with section 7881 of this title (regarding participation by private school children and teachers).


(c) Deemed approvalAn application submitted by a State educational agency pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be deemed to be approved by the Secretary unless the Secretary makes a written determination, prior to the expiration of the 120-day period beginning on the date on which the Secretary received the application, that the application is not in compliance with this subpart.


(d) DisapprovalThe Secretary shall not finally disapprove the application, except after giving the State educational agency notice and an opportunity for a hearing.


(e) NotificationIf the Secretary finds that the application is not in compliance, in whole or in part, with this subpart, the Secretary shall—(1) give the State educational agency notice and an opportunity for a hearing; and

(2) notify the State educational agency of the finding of noncompliance and, in such notification, shall—(A) cite the specific provisions in the application that are not in compliance; and

(B) request additional information, only as to the noncompliant provisions, needed to make the application compliant.



(f) ResponseIf the State educational agency responds to the Secretary’s notification described in subsection (e)(2) of this section during the 45-day period beginning on the date on which the agency received the notification, and resubmits the application with the requested information described in subsection (e)(2)(B) of this section, the Secretary shall approve or disapprove such application prior to the later of—(1) the expiration of the 45-day period beginning on the date on which the application is resubmitted; or

(2) the expiration of the 120-day period described in subsection (c) of this section.


(g) Failure to respondIf the State educational agency does not respond to the Secretary’s notification described in subsection (e)(2) of this section during the 45-day period beginning on the date on which the agency received the notification, such application shall be deemed to be disapproved.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title II, § 2112, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title II, § 201, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1623.)
