§ 1033a. Augustus F. Hawkins centers of excellence(a) Program authorizedFrom the amounts appropriated to carry out this part, the Secretary is authorized to award competitive grants to eligible institutions to establish centers of excellence.


(b) Use of fundsGrants provided by the Secretary under this subpart shall be used to ensure that current and future teachers are highly qualified by carrying out one or more of the following activities:(1) Implementing reforms within teacher preparation programs to ensure that such programs are preparing teachers who are highly qualified, are able to understand scientifically valid research, and are able to use advanced technology effectively in the classroom, including use of instructional techniques to improve student academic achievement, by—(A) retraining or recruiting faculty; and

(B) designing (or redesigning) teacher preparation programs that—(i) prepare teachers to serve in low-performing schools and close student achievement gaps, and that are based on rigorous academic content, scientifically valid research (including scientifically based reading research and mathematics research, as it becomes available), and challenging State academic content standards and student academic achievement standards; and

(ii) promote strong teaching skills.



(2) Providing sustained and high-quality preservice clinical experience, including the mentoring of prospective teachers by exemplary teachers, substantially increasing interaction between faculty at institutions of higher education and new and experienced teachers, principals, and other administrators at elementary schools or secondary schools, and providing support, including preparation time, for such interaction.

(3) Developing and implementing initiatives to promote retention of highly qualified teachers and principals, including minority teachers and principals, including programs that provide—(A) teacher or principal mentoring from exemplary teachers or principals, respectively; or

(B) induction and support for teachers and principals during their first three years of employment as teachers or principals, respectively.


(4) Awarding scholarships based on financial need to help students pay the costs of tuition, room, board, and other expenses of completing a teacher preparation program, not to exceed the cost of attendance.

(5) Disseminating information on effective practices for teacher preparation and successful teacher certification and licensure assessment preparation strategies.

(6) Activities authorized under section 1022a of this title.


(c) ApplicationAny eligible institution desiring a grant under this subpart shall submit an application to the Secretary at such a time, in such a manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may require.


(d) Minimum grant amountThe minimum amount of each grant under this subpart shall be $500,000.


(e) Limitation on administrative expensesAn eligible institution that receives a grant under this subpart may use not more than two percent of the funds provided to administer the grant.


(f) RegulationsThe Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this subpart.


(Pub. L. 89–329, title II, § 242, as added Pub. L. 110–315, title II, § 201(3), Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3158.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 242 of Pub. L. 89–329 was classified to section 1047a of this title, prior to the general amendment of former part D of this subchapter by Pub. L. 99–498.


