§ 1070a–18. Reports, evaluations, and grants for project improvement and dissemination(a) Reports to the authorizing committees(1) In generalThe Secretary shall submit annually, to the authorizing committees, a report that documents the performance of all programs funded under this division. Such report shall—(A) be submitted not later than 12 months after the eligible entities receiving funds under this division are required to report their performance to the Secretary;

(B) focus on the programs’ performance on the relevant outcome criteria determined under section 1070a–11(f)(4) of this title;

(C) aggregate individual project performance data on the outcome criteria in order to provide national performance data for each program;

(D) include, when appropriate, descriptive data, multi-year data, and multi-cohort data; and

(E) include comparable data on the performance nationally of low-income students, first-generation students, and students with disabilities.


(2) InformationThe Secretary shall provide, with each report submitted under paragraph (1), information on the impact of the secondary review process described in section 1070a–11(c)(8)(C)(iv) of this title, including the number and type of secondary reviews, the disposition of the secondary reviews, the effect on timing of awards, and any other information the Secretary determines is necessary.



(b) Evaluations(1) In general(A) Authorization of grants and contractsFor the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the programs and projects assisted under this division, the Secretary shall make grants to, or enter into contracts with, institutions of higher education and other public and private institutions and organizations to rigorously evaluate the effectiveness of the programs and projects assisted under this division, including a rigorous evaluation of the programs and projects assisted under section 1070a–13 of this title. The evaluation of the programs and projects assisted under section 1070a–13 of this title shall be implemented not later than June 30, 2010.


(B) Content of upward bound evaluationThe evaluation of the programs and projects assisted under section 1070a–13 of this title that is described in subparagraph (A) shall examine the characteristics of the students who benefit most from the Upward Bound program under section 1070a–13 of this title and the characteristics of the programs and projects that most benefit students.


(C) ImplementationEach evaluation described in this paragraph shall be implemented in accordance with the requirements of this section.



(2) Practices(A) In generalThe evaluations described in paragraph (1) shall identify institutional, community, and program or project practices that are effective in—(i) enhancing the access of low-income individuals and first-generation college students to postsecondary education;

(ii) the preparation of such individuals and students for postsecondary education; and

(iii) fostering the success of the individuals and students in postsecondary education.


(B) Primary purposeAny evaluation conducted under this division shall have as the evaluation’s primary purpose the identification of particular practices that further the achievement of the outcome criteria determined under section 1070a–11(f)(4) of this title.


(C) Dissemination and use of evaluation findingsThe Secretary shall disseminate to eligible entities and make available to the public the practices identified under subparagraph (B). The practices may be used by eligible entities that receive assistance under this division after the dissemination.



(3) Special rule related to evaluation participationThe Secretary shall not require an eligible entity, as a condition for receiving, or that receives, assistance under any program or project under this division to participate in an evaluation under this section that—(A) requires the eligible entity to recruit additional students beyond those the program or project would normally recruit; or

(B) results in the denial of services for an eligible student under the program or project.


(4) ConsiderationWhen designing an evaluation under this subsection, the Secretary shall continue to consider—(A) the burden placed on the program participants or the eligible entity; and

(B) whether the evaluation meets generally accepted standards of institutional review boards.



(c) GrantsThe Secretary may award grants to institutions of higher education or other private and public institutions and organizations, that are carrying out a program or project assisted under this division prior to October 7, 1998, to enable the institutions and organizations to expand and leverage the success of such programs or projects by working in partnership with other institutions, community-based organizations, or combinations of such institutions and organizations, that are not receiving assistance under this division and are serving low-income students and first generation college students, in order to—(1) disseminate and replicate best practices of programs or projects assisted under this division; and

(2) provide technical assistance regarding programs and projects assisted under this division.


(d) ResultsIn order to improve overall program or project effectiveness, the results of evaluations and grants described in this section shall be disseminated by the Secretary to similar programs or projects assisted under this subpart, as well as other individuals concerned with postsecondary access for and retention of low-income individuals and first-generation college students.


(Pub. L. 89–329, title IV, § 402H, as added Pub. L. 102–325, title IV, § 402(a)(4), July 23, 1992, 106 Stat. 491; amended Pub. L. 105–244, title IV, § 402(g), Oct. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1655; Pub. L. 110–315, title IV, § 403(h), Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3204.)

Amendments2008—Pub. L. 110–315, § 403(h)(1), substituted “Reports, evaluations, and grants for project improvement and dissemination” for “Evaluations and grants for project improvement and dissemination partnership projects” in section catchline.
Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 110–315, § 403(h)(3), added subsec. (a). Former subsec. (a) redesignated (b).
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 110–315, § 403(h)(2), (4), redesignated subsec. (a) as (b), added pars. (1) to (4), and struck out former pars. (1) and (2) which read as follows:
“(1) In general.—For the purpose of improving the effectiveness of the programs and projects assisted under this division, the Secretary may make grants to or enter into contracts with institutions of higher education and other public and private institutions and organizations to evaluate the effectiveness of the programs and projects assisted under this division.
“(2) Practices.—The evaluations described in paragraph (1) shall identify institutional, community, and program or project practices that are particularly effective in enhancing the access of low-income individuals and first-generation college students to postsecondary education, the preparation of the individuals and students for postsecondary education, and the success of the individuals and students in postsecondary education. Such evaluations shall also investigate the effectiveness of alternative and innovative methods within Federal TRIO programs of increasing access to, and retention of, students in postsecondary education.”
Former subsec. (b) redesignated (c).
Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 110–315, § 403(h)(2), redesignated subsecs. (b) and (c) as (c) and (d), respectively.
1998—Pub. L. 105–244 amended section generally, revising and restating former subsecs. (a) to (c) relating to evaluation for project improvement.

Effective Date of 1998 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 105–244 effective Oct. 1, 1998, except as otherwise provided in Pub. L. 105–244, see section 3 of Pub. L. 105–244, set out as a note under section 1001 of this title.


