§ 7012. Parental notification(a) In generalEach eligible entity using funds provided under this subchapter to provide a language instruction educational program shall, not later than 30 days after the beginning of the school year, inform a parent or the parents of a limited English proficient child identified for participation in, or participating in, such program of—(1) the reasons for the identification of their child as limited English proficient and in need of placement in a language instruction educational program;

(2) the child’s level of English proficiency, how such level was assessed, and the status of the child’s academic achievement;

(3) the method of instruction used in the program in which their child is, or will be, participating, and the methods of instruction used in other available programs, including how such programs differ in content, instruction goals, and use of English and a native language in instruction;

(4) how the program in which their child is, or will be participating will meet the educational strengths and needs of the child;

(5) how such program will specifically help their child learn English, and meet age appropriate academic achievement standards for grade promotion and graduation;

(6) the specific exit requirements for such program, the expected rate of transition from such program into classrooms that are not tailored for limited English proficient children, and the expected rate of graduation from secondary school for such program if funds under this subchapter are used for children in secondary schools;

(7) in the case of a child with a disability, how such program meets the objectives of the individualized education program of the child; and

(8) information pertaining to parental rights that includes written guidance—(A) detailing—(i) the right that parents have to have their child immediately removed from such program upon their request; and

(ii) the options that parents have to decline to enroll their child in such program or to choose another program or method of instruction, if available; and


(B) assisting parents in selecting among various programs and methods of instruction, if more than one program or method is offered by the eligible entity.



(b) Separate notificationIn addition to providing the information required to be provided under subsection (a) of this section, each eligible entity that is using funds provided under this subchapter to provide a language instruction educational program, and that has failed to make progress on the annual measurable achievement objectives described in section 6842 of this title for any fiscal year for which part A of this subchapter is in effect, shall separately inform a parent or the parents of a child identified for participation in such program, or participating in such program, of such failure not later than 30 days after such failure occurs.


(c) Receipt of informationThe information required to be provided under subsections (a) and (b) of this section to a parent shall be provided in an understandable and uniform format and, to the extent practicable, in a language that the parent can understand.


(d) Special rule applicable during school yearFor a child who has not been identified for participation in a language instruction educational program prior to the beginning of the school year, the eligible entity shall carry out subsections (a) through (c) of this section with respect to the parents of the child within 2 weeks of the child being placed in such a program.


(e) Parental participation(1) In generalEach eligible entity using funds provided under this subchapter to provide a language instruction educational program shall implement an effective means of outreach to parents of limited English proficient children to inform such parents of how they can—(A) be involved in the education of their children; and

(B) be active participants in assisting their children—(i) to learn English;

(ii) to achieve at high levels in core academic subjects; and

(iii) to meet the same challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards as all children are expected to meet.



(2) Receipt of recommendationsThe outreach described in paragraph (1) shall include holding, and sending notice of opportunities for, regular meetings for the purpose of formulating and responding to recommendations from parents described in such paragraph.



(f) Basis for admission or exclusionA child shall not be admitted to, or excluded from, any federally assisted education program on the basis of a surname or language-minority status.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title III, § 3302, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title III, § 301, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1732.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 3302 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 6922 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


