§ 766. Tribal reservation(a) Transfer of real property to Secretary; existing rights applicable and status of property subsequent to transfer; taxationThe Secretary, within one year following April 3, 1980, shall accept the real property of members of the tribe or bands if conveyed or otherwise transferred to him, and real property held for the benefit of members of the tribe or bands if conveyed or otherwise transferred to him by the owner or owners of such land held for the benefit of the bands. Such property shall be subject to all valid existing rights including, but not limited to, liens, outstanding taxes (local and State), and mortgages. The land transferred to the Secretary pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to foreclosure or sale pursuant to the terms of any valid existing obligation in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah. Subject to the conditions imposed by this subsection, the land transferred shall be taken in the name of the United States in trust for the tribe or bands to be held as Indian lands are held, and shall be part of their reservation. The transfer of real property authorized by this section shall be exempt from all local, State, and Federal taxation. All real property transferred under this section shall, as of the date of transfer, be exempt from all local, State, and Federal taxation.


(b) Exercise of civil and criminal jurisdiction by UtahThe State of Utah shall exercise civil and criminal jurisdiction with respect to the reservation and persons on the reservation as if it had assumed jurisdiction pursuant to the Act of August 15, 1953 (67 Stat. 588), as amended by the Act of April 11, 1968 (82 Stat. 79), and pursuant to sections 63–36–9 through 63–36–21 of the Utah State Code.


(c) Plan for enlargement of reservation; negotiation; development; scope and approvalInasmuch as the Kanosh, Koosharem and Indian Peaks Bands of Paiute Indians lost land which had been their former reservations and the Cedar Band of Paiute Indians had never had a reservation, the Secretary shall negotiate with the tribe or bands, or with representatives of the tribe chosen by the tribe or bands, concerning the enlargement of the reservation for the tribe established pursuant to subsection (a) of this section and shall within two years after April 3, 1980, develop a plan for the enlargement of the reservation for the tribe. The plan shall include acquisition of not to exceed a total of fifteen thousand acres of land to be selected from available public, State, or private lands within Beaver, Iron, Millard, Sevier, or Washington Counties, Utah. Upon approval of such plan by the tribal officials elected under the tribal constitution and bylaws adopted pursuant to section 765 of this title, the Secretary shall submit such plan, in the form of proposed legislation, to the Congress.


(d) Notification and consultative requirements for enlargement planTo assure that legitimate State and local interests are not prejudiced by the enlargement of the reservation for the tribe, the Secretary, in developing the plan under subsection (c) of this section for the enlargement of the reservation for the tribe, shall notify and consult with all appropriate officials of the State of Utah, all appropriate local government officials in the affected five county area in the State of Utah and any other interested parties. Such consultation shall include the following subjects:(1) the size and location of the additions to the reservation;

(2) the effect the enlargement of the reservation would have on State and local tax revenues;

(3) the criminal and civil jurisdiction of the State of Utah with respect to the reservation and persons on the reservation;

(4) hunting, fishing, and trapping rights of the tribe, and members of the tribe, on the reservation;

(5) the provision of State and local services to the reservation and to the tribe and members of the tribe on the reservation; and

(6) the provision of Federal services to the reservation and to the tribe and members of the tribe and the provision of services by the tribe to members of the tribe.


(e) Contents of enlargement planAny plan developed under this section for the enlargement of the reservation for the tribe shall provide that—(1) the enlargement of the reservation will not grant or restore to the tribe or any member of the tribe any hunting, fishing, or trapping right of any nature, including any indirect or procedural right or advantage, on such addition to the reservation;

(2) the Secretary shall not accept any real property in trust for the benefit of the tribe or bands unless such real property is located either within Beaver, Iron, Millard, Sevier, or Washington Counties, State of Utah;

(3) the transfer of any real property to the Secretary in trust for the benefit of the tribe or bands as an addition to the reservation shall be exempt from all Federal, State, and local taxation, and all such real property shall, as of the date of such transfer, be exempt from Federal, State, and local taxation; and

(4) the State of Utah shall exercise civil and criminal jurisdiction with respect to the addition to the reservation and persons on such lands as if it had assumed jurisdiction pursuant to the Act of August 15, 1953 (67 Stat. 588), as amended by the Act of April 11, 1968 (82 Stat. 79), and pursuant to sections 63–36–9 through 63–36–21 of the Utah State Code.


(f) Statement appended to enlargement plan respecting implementation of notification and consultative requirementsThe Secretary shall append to the plan a detailed statement describing the manner in which the notification and consultation prescribed by subsection (d) of this section was carried out and shall include any written comments with respect to the enlargement of the reservation for the tribe submitted to the Secretary by State and local officials and other interested parties in the course of such consultation.


(Pub. L. 96–227, § 7, Apr. 3, 1980, 94 Stat. 320; Pub. L. 109–126, § 4, Dec. 7, 2005, 119 Stat. 2547.)


References in TextAct of August 15, 1953 (67 Stat. 588), as amended by the Act of April 11, 1968 (82 Stat. 79), referred to in subsecs. (b) and (e)(4), probably means section 7 of act Aug. 15, 1953, ch. 505, 67 Stat. 590, which was set out as a note under section 1360 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, and was repealed by Pub. L. 90–284, title IV, § 403(b), Apr. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 79. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Amendments2005—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 109–126 substituted “Cedar” for “Cedar City”.

Transfer of Land Into Trust for Shivwits Band of Paiute Indian Tribe of UtahPub. L. 111–11, title I, § 1982, Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1093, provided that:
“(a) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Parcel a.—The term ‘Parcel A’ means the parcel that consists of approximately 640 acres of land that is—“(A) managed by the Bureau of Land Management;

“(B) located in Washington County, Utah; and

“(C) depicted on the map entitled ‘Washington County Growth and Conservation Act Map’ [meaning the “Washington County Growth and Conservation Act Map”, dated November 13, 2008].


“(2) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of the Interior.

“(3) Tribe.—The term ‘Tribe’ means the Shivwits Band of Paiute Indians of the State of Utah.


“(b) Parcel To Be Held in Trust.—“(1) In general.—At the request of the Tribe, the Secretary shall take into trust for the benefit of the Tribe all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to Parcel A.

“(2) Survey; legal description.—“(A) Survey.—Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Mar. 30, 2009], the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall complete a survey of Parcel A to establish the boundary of Parcel A.

“(B) Legal description of parcel a.—“(i) In general.—Upon the completion of the survey under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a legal description of—     “(I) the boundary line of Parcel A; and

     “(II) Parcel A.


“(ii) Technical corrections.—Before the date of publication of the legal descriptions under clause (i), the Secretary may make minor corrections to correct technical and clerical errors in the legal descriptions.

“(iii) Effect.—Effective beginning on the date of publication of the legal descriptions under clause (i), the legal descriptions shall be considered to be the official legal descriptions of Parcel A.



“(3) Effect.—Nothing in this section—“(A) affects any valid right in existence on the date of enactment of this Act [Mar. 30, 2009];

“(B) enlarges, impairs, or otherwise affects any right or claim of the Tribe to any land or interest in land other than to Parcel A that is—“(i) based on an aboriginal or Indian title; and

“(ii) in existence as of the date of enactment of this Act; or


“(C) constitutes an express or implied reservation of water or a water right with respect to Parcel A.


“(4) Land to be made a part of the reservation.—Land taken into trust pursuant to this section shall be considered to be part of the reservation of the Tribe.”





Conveyance of Land Held in Trust for Paiute Indian Tribe of UtahPub. L. 109–126, Dec. 7, 2005, 119 Stat. 2546, provided that:
“SECTION 1. LAND CONVEYANCE TO CITY.“(a) Authorization for Conveyance.—Not later than 90 days after the Secretary receives a request from the Tribe and the City to convey all right, title, and interest of the United States and the Tribe in and to the Property to the City, the Secretary shall take the Property out of trust status and convey the Property to the City.

“(b) Terms and Conditions.—The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be subject to the following conditions:“(1) Tribal resolution.—Prior to conveying the Property under subsection (a), the Secretary shall ensure that the terms of the sale have been approved by a tribal resolution of the Tribe.

“(2) Consideration.—Consideration given by the City for the Property shall be not less than the appraised fair market value of the Property.

“(3) No federal cost.—The City shall pay all costs related to the conveyance authorized under this section.


“(c) Proceeds of Sale.—The proceeds from the conveyance of the Property under this section shall be given immediately to the Tribe.

“(d) Failure to Make Conveyance.—If after the Secretary takes the Property out of trust status pursuant to subsection (a) the City or the Tribe elect not to carry out the conveyance under that subsection, the Secretary shall take the Property back into trust for the benefit of the Tribe.

