§ 7273d. Administrative provisions(a) Matching funds for grant renewalFor each fiscal year after the first fiscal year in which an organization or consortium receives assistance under this subpart, the organization or consortium shall demonstrate in the application submitted for such fiscal year, that a portion of the services provided by the organization or consortium is supported through non-Federal contributions, which contributions may be in cash or in kind.


(b) Submission of information(1) In generalEach organization or consortium receiving assistance under this subpart shall submit to the Secretary, on an annual basis, information concerning the parental information and resource centers assisted under this subpart, including the following information:(A) The number of parents (including the number of minority and limited English proficient parents) who receive information and training.

(B) The types and modes of training, information, and support provided under this subpart.

(C) The strategies used to reach and serve parents of minority and limited English proficient children, parents with limited literacy skills, and other parents in need of the services provided under this subpart.

(D) The parental involvement policies and practices used by the center and an evaluation of whether such policies and practices are effective in improving home-school communication, student academic achievement, student and school academic achievement, and parental involvement in school planning, review, and improvement.

(E) The effectiveness of the activities that local educational agencies and schools are carrying out, with regard to parental involvement and other activities assisted under this chapter, that lead to improved student academic achievement and improved student and school academic achievement.


(2) DisseminationThe Secretary shall disseminate annually to Congress and the public the information that each organization or consortium submits under paragraph (1).



(c) Technical assistanceThe Secretary shall provide technical assistance, by grant or contract, for the establishment, development, and coordination of parent training, information, and support programs and parental information and resource centers.


(d) Rule of constructionNothing in this subpart shall be construed to prohibit a parental information and resource center from—(1) having its employees or agents meet with a parent at a site that is not on school grounds; or

(2) working with another agency that serves children.


(e) Parental rightsNotwithstanding any other provision of this subpart—(1) no person (including a parent who educates a child at home, a public school parent, or a private school parent) shall be required to participate in any program of parent education or developmental screening under this subpart; and

(2) no program or center assisted under this subpart shall take any action that infringes in any manner on the right of a parent to direct the education of their children.


(f) Continuation of awardsThe Secretary shall use funds made available under this subpart to continue to make grant or contract payments to each entity that was awarded a multiyear grant or contract under title IV of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act (as such title was in effect on the day before January 8, 2002) for the duration of the grant or contract award.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5565, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1859.)


References in TextTitle IV of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act (as such title was in effect on the day before January 8, 2002), referred to in subsec. (f), is title IV of Pub. L. 103–227, Mar. 31, 1994, 108 Stat. 187, which was classified to subchapter IV (§ 5911 et seq.) of chapter 68 of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(4) [title III, § 310(i)], Nov. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 1535, 1501A–265, effective Sept. 30, 2000.


