§ 6573. State administration(a) Rulemaking(1) In generalEach State that receives funds under this subchapter shall—(A) ensure that any State rules, regulations, and policies relating to this subchapter conform to the purposes of this subchapter and provide any such proposed rules, regulations, and policies to the committee of practitioners created under subsection (b) of this section for review and comment;

(B) minimize such rules, regulations, and policies to which the State’s local educational agencies and schools are subject;

(C) eliminate or modify State and local fiscal accounting requirements in order to facilitate the ability of schools to consolidate funds under schoolwide programs; and

(D) identify any such rule, regulation, or policy as a State-imposed requirement.


(2) Support and facilitationState rules, regulations, and policies under this subchapter shall support and facilitate local educational agency and school-level systemic reform designed to enable all children to meet the challenging State student academic achievement standards.



(b) Committee of practitioners(1) In generalEach State educational agency that receives funds under this subchapter shall create a State committee of practitioners to advise the State in carrying out its responsibilities under this subchapter.


(2) MembershipEach such committee shall include—(A) as a majority of its members, representatives from local educational agencies;

(B) administrators, including the administrators of programs described in other parts of this subchapter;

(C) teachers, including vocational educators;

(D) parents;

(E) members of local school boards;

(F) representatives of private school children; and

(G) pupil services personnel.


(3) DutiesThe duties of such committee shall include a review, before publication, of any proposed or final State rule or regulation pursuant to this subchapter. In an emergency situation where such rule or regulation must be issued within a very limited time to assist local educational agencies with the operation of the program under this subchapter, the State educational agency may issue a regulation without prior consultation, but shall immediately thereafter convene the State committee of practitioners to review the emergency regulation before issuance in final form.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1903, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1618.)
