§ 1161l. Student safety and campus emergency management(a) Grants authorized(1) In generalFrom the amounts appropriated under subsection (f), the Secretary is authorized to award grants, on a competitive basis, to institutions of higher education or consortia of institutions of higher education to enable institutions of higher education or consortia to pay the Federal share of the cost of carrying out the authorized activities described in subsection (c).


(2) Consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland SecurityWhere appropriate, the Secretary shall award grants under this section in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security.


(3) DurationThe Secretary shall award each grant under this section for a period of two years.


(4) Limitation on institutions and consortiaAn institution of higher education or consortium shall be eligible for only one grant under this section.



(b) Federal share; non-Federal share(1) In generalThe Federal share of the activities described in subsection (c) shall be 50 percent.


(2) Non-Federal shareAn institution of higher education or consortium that receives a grant under this section shall provide the non-Federal share, which may be provided from State and local resources dedicated to emergency preparedness and response.



(c) Authorized activitiesEach institution of higher education or consortium receiving a grant under this section may use the grant funds to carry out one or more of the following:(1) Developing and implementing a state-of-the-art emergency communications system for each campus of an institution of higher education or consortium, in order to contact students via cellular, text message, or other state-of-the-art communications methods when a significant emergency or dangerous situation occurs. An institution or consortium using grant funds to carry out this paragraph shall also, in coordination with the appropriate State and local emergency management authorities—(A) develop procedures that students, employees, and others on a campus of an institution of higher education or consortium will be directed to follow in the event of a significant emergency or dangerous situation; and

(B) develop procedures the institution of higher education or consortium shall follow to inform, in a reasonable and timely manner, students, employees, and others on a campus in the event of a significant emergency or dangerous situation, which procedures shall include the emergency communications system described in this paragraph.


(2) Supporting measures to improve safety at the institution of higher education or consortium, such as—(A) security assessments;

(B) security training of personnel and students at the institution of higher education or consortium;

(C) where appropriate, coordination of campus preparedness and response efforts with local law enforcement, local emergency management authorities, and other agencies, to improve coordinated responses in emergencies among such entities;

(D) establishing a hotline that allows a student or staff member at an institution or consortium to report another student or staff member at the institution or consortium who the reporting student or staff member believes may be a danger to the reported student or staff member or to others; and

(E) acquisition and installation of access control, video surveillance, intrusion detection, and perimeter security technologies and systems.


(3) Coordinating with appropriate local entities for the provision of mental health services for students and staff of the institution of higher education or consortium, including mental health crisis response and intervention services for students and staff affected by a campus or community emergency.


(d) ApplicationEach institution of higher education or consortium desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.


(e) Technical assistanceThe Secretary shall coordinate technical assistance provided by State and local emergency management agencies, the Department of Homeland Security, and other agencies as appropriate, to institutions of higher education or consortia that request assistance in developing and implementing the activities assisted under this section.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2009 and each of the five succeeding fiscal years.


(Pub. L. 89–329, title VIII, § 821, as added Pub. L. 110–315, title VIII, § 801, Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3408; amended Pub. L. 111–39, title VIII, § 801(6), July 1, 2009, 123 Stat. 1956.)

Amendments2009—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 111–39, § 801(6)(A), substituted “subsection (f)” for “subsection (g)”.
Subsec. (c)(1)(B). Pub. L. 111–39, § 801(6)(B), substituted “in a reasonable” for “within a reasonable”.

Effective Date of 2009 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 111–39 effective as if enacted on the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–315 (Aug. 14, 2008), see section 3 of Pub. L. 111–39, set out as a note under section 1001 of this title.


