§ 1652. Prohibition against busing(a) Use of appropriated funds for busingNo funds appropriated for the purpose of carrying out any applicable program may be used for the transportation of students or teachers (or for the purchase of equipment for such transportation) in order to overcome racial imbalance in any school or school system, or for the transportation of students or teachers (or for the purchase of equipment for such transportation) in order to carry out a plan of racial desegregation of any school or school system, except on the express written voluntary request of appropriate local school officials. No such funds shall be made available for transportation when the time or distance of travel is so great as to risk the health of the children or significantly impinge on the educational process of such children, or where the educational opportunities available at the school to which it is proposed that any such student be transported will be substantially inferior to those opportunities offered at the school to which such student would otherwise be assigned under a nondiscriminatory system of school assignments based on geographic zones established without discrimination on account of race, religion, color, or national origin.


(b) Rules, regulations, orders, etc., for busingNo officer, agent, or employee of the Department of Education, the Department of Justice, or any other Federal agency shall, by rule, regulation, order, guideline, or otherwise (1) urge, persuade, induce, or require any local education agency, or any private nonprofit agency, institution, or organization to use any funds derived from any State or local sources for any purpose, unless constitutionally required, for which Federal funds appropriated to carry out any applicable program may not be used, as provided in this section, or (2) condition the receipt of Federal funds under any Federal program upon any action by any State or local public officer or employee which would be prohibited by clause (1) on the part of a Federal officer or employee. No officer, agent, or employee of the Department of Education or any other Federal agency shall urge, persuade, induce, or require any local education agency to undertake transportation of any student where the time or distance of travel is so great as to risk the health of the child or significantly impinge on his or her educational process; or where the educational opportunities available at the school to which it is proposed that such student be transported will be substantially inferior to those offered at the school to which such student would otherwise be assigned under a nondiscriminatory system of school assignments based on geographic zones established without discrimination on account of race, religion, color, or national origin.


(c) “Applicable program” definedAn applicable program means a program to which the General Education Provisions Act [20 U.S.C. 1221 et seq.] applies.


(Pub. L. 92–318, title VIII, § 802, June 23, 1972, 86 Stat. 371; Pub. L. 96–88, title III, § 301, title V, § 507, Oct. 17, 1979, 93 Stat. 677, 692.)


References in TextThe General Education Provisions Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is title IV of Pub. L. 90–247, Jan. 2, 1968, 81 Stat. 814, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 31 (§ 1221 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1221 of this title and Tables.


Transfer of Functions
“Department of Education” substituted for “Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (including the Office of Education)” in subsec. (b) pursuant to sections 301 and 507 of Pub. L. 96–88, which are classified to sections 3441 and 3507 of this title and which transferred functions and offices (relating to education) of Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, including Office of Education, to Department of Education.


