“SEC. 5307. NATIONAL ARCHITECTURE AND STANDARDS.“(a) In General.—“(1) Development, implementation, and maintenance.—Consistent with section 12(d) of the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995 [Pub. L. 104–113] (15 U.S.C. 272 note; 110 Stat. 783), the Secretary [of Transportation] shall develop, implement, and maintain a national architecture and supporting standards and protocols to promote the widespread use and evaluation of intelligent transportation system technology as a component of the surface transportation systems of the United States.

“(2) Interoperability and efficiency.—To the maximum extent practicable, the national architecture shall promote interoperability among, and efficiency of, intelligent transportation system technologies implemented throughout the United States.

“(3) Use of standards development organizations.—In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall use the services of such standards development organizations as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

“(4) Use of expert panel.—“(A) Designation.—The Secretary shall designate a panel of experts to recommend ways to expedite and streamline the process for developing the standards and protocols to be developed pursuant to paragraph (1).

“(B) Nonapplicability of advisory committee act.—The expert panel shall not be subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).

“(C) Deadline for recommendation.—Not later than September 30, 2007, the expert panel shall provide the Secretary with a recommendation relating to such standards development.



“(b) Provisional Standards.—“(1) In general.—If the Secretary finds that the development or balloting of an intelligent transportation system standard jeopardizes the timely achievement of the objectives identified in subsection (a), the Secretary may establish a provisional standard, after consultation with affected parties, using, to the extent practicable, the work product of appropriate standards development organizations.

“(2) Period of effectiveness.—A provisional standard established under paragraph (1) shall be published in the Federal Register and remain in effect until the appropriate standards development organization adopts and publishes a standard.


“(c) Conformity With National Architecture.—“(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary shall ensure that intelligent transportation system projects carried out using funds made available from the Highway Trust Fund, including funds made available under this subtitle to deploy intelligent transportation system technologies, conform to the national architecture, applicable standards or provisional standards, and protocols developed under subsection (a).

“(2) Secretary’s discretion.—The Secretary may authorize exceptions to paragraph (1) for—“(A) projects designed to achieve specific research objectives outlined in the national intelligent transportation system program plan or the surface transportation research and development strategic plan developed under section 508 of title 23, United States Code; or

“(B) the upgrade or expansion of an intelligent transportation system in existence on the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 10, 2005] if the Secretary determines that the upgrade or expansion—“(i) would not adversely affect the goals or purposes of this subtitle [subtitle C (§§ 5301–5310) of title V of Pub. L. 109–59, enacting this section and section 513 of this title];

“(ii) is carried out before the end of the useful life of such system; and

“(iii) is cost-effective as compared to alternatives that would meet the conformity requirement of paragraph (1).



“(3) Exceptions.—Paragraph (1) shall not apply to funds used for operation or maintenance of an intelligent transportation system in existence on the date of enactment of this Act.


