§ 76q–1. John F. Kennedy Center Plaza(a) DefinitionsIn this section, the following definitions apply:(1) Air rightsThe term “air rights” means real property interests conveyed by deed, lease, or permit for the use of space between streets and alleys within the boundaries of the Project.


(2) CenterThe term “Center” means the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.


(3) Green spacesThe term “green spaces” means areas within the boundaries of the Project or affected by the Project that are covered by grass, trees, or other vegetation.


(4) PlazaThe term “Plaza” means improvements to the area surrounding the John F. Kennedy Center building carried out under the Project and comprised of transportation elements (including roadways, sidewalks, and bicycle lanes) and non-transportation elements (including landscaping, green space, open public space, water, sewer, and utility connections).


(5) ProjectThe term “Project” means the Plaza project, as described in the TEA–21 report, providing for construction of a Plaza adjacent to the Center and for improved bicycle, pedestrian, and vehicular access to and around the Center. The term includes planning, design, engineering, and construction of the Plaza, buildings to be constructed on the Plaza, and related transportation improvements and may include any other elements of the Project identified in the TEA–21 report.


(6) SecretaryThe term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Transportation.


(7) TEA–21 reportThe term “TEA–21 report” means the report of the Secretary submitted to Congress under section 1214 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (20 U.S.C. 76j note; 112 Stat. 204).



(b) Responsibilities of the Secretary(1) In generalThe Secretary shall be responsible for the Project and may undertake such activities as may be necessary to construct the Project, other than buildings to be constructed on the Plaza, substantially as described in the TEA–21 report.


(2) Planning, design, engineering, and constructionThe Secretary shall be responsible for the planning, design, engineering, and construction of the Project, other than buildings to be constructed on the Plaza.


(3) Agreements with the Board and other agenciesThe Secretary shall enter into memoranda of agreement with the Board and any appropriate Federal or other governmental agency to facilitate the planning, design, engineering, and construction of the Project.


(4) Consultation with the BoardThe Secretary shall consult with the Board to maximize efficiencies in planning and executing the Project, including the construction of any buildings on the Plaza.


(5) ContractsSubject to the approval of the Board, the Secretary may enter into contracts on behalf of the Center related to the planning, design, engineering, and construction of the Project.


(6) Project Team(A) EstablishmentTo further construction of the Project, the Secretary shall establish a Project Team.


(B) MembershipThe Project Team shall be composed of the following members:(i) The Secretary (or the Secretary’s designee).

(ii) The Administrator of General Services (or the Administrator’s designee).

(iii) The Chairman of the Board (or the Chairman’s designee).

(iv) Such other individuals as the Project Team considers appropriate.


(C) Project DirectorThe Project Team shall have a Project Director who shall be appointed by the Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator of General Services and the Chairman of the Board. The Project Director shall report directly to the Project Team.




(c) Responsibilities of the Board(1) In generalThe Board, in consultation with the Project Team, may undertake such activities as may be necessary to construct buildings on the Plaza for the Project.


(2) Receipt of transfers of air rightsThe Board may receive from the District of Columbia such transfers of air rights as may be necessary for the planning, design, engineering, and construction of the Project.


(3) Construction of buildingsThe Board, in consultation with the Project Team, may construct, with non-appropriated funds, buildings on the Plaza for the Project and shall be responsible for the planning, design, engineering, and construction of the buildings.


(4) Acknowledgment of contributions(A) In generalThe Board may acknowledge private contributions used in the construction of buildings on the Plaza for the Project in the interior of the buildings, but may not acknowledge private contributions on the exterior of the buildings.


(B) Applicability of other requirementsAny acknowledgment of private contributions under this paragraph shall be consistent with the requirements of section 76j(b) of this title.



(5) Approval by Project TeamNotwithstanding section 76k(e) of this title, any decision by the Board that will significantly affect, as determined by the Project Team in consultation with the Board, the scope, cost, schedule, or engineering feasibility of any element of the Project, other than buildings to be constructed on the Plaza, shall be subject to the approval of the Project Team.



(d) Responsibilities of the District of Columbia(1) Modification of highway systemNotwithstanding any State or local law, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, in consultation with the National Capital Planning Commission and the Secretary, shall have exclusive authority to amend or modify the permanent system of highways of the District of Columbia as may be necessary to meet the requirements and needs of the Project.


(2) Conveyances(A) AuthorityNotwithstanding any State or local law, the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall have exclusive authority to convey or dispose of any interests in real estate (including air rights or air space as that term is defined by District of Columbia law) owned or controlled by the District of Columbia, as may be necessary to meet the requirements and needs of the Project.


(B) Conveyance to the BoardNot later than 90 days following the date of receipt of notification from the Secretary of the requirements and needs of the Project, the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall convey or dispose of to the Board without compensation interests in real estate described in subparagraph (A).



(3) Agreements with the BoardThe Mayor of the District of Columbia shall have the authority to enter into memoranda of agreement with the Board and any Federal or other governmental agency to facilitate the planning, design, engineering, and construction of the Project.



(e) Ownership(1) Roadways and sidewalksUpon completion of the Project, responsibility for maintenance and oversight of roadways and sidewalks modified or improved for the Project shall remain with the owner of the affected roadways and sidewalks.


(2) Maintenance of green spacesSubject to paragraph (3), upon completion of the Project, responsibility for maintenance and oversight of any green spaces modified or improved for the Project shall remain with the owner of the affected green spaces.


(3) Buildings and green spaces on the PlazaUpon completion of the Project, the Board shall own, operate, and maintain the buildings and green spaces established on the Plaza for the Project.



(f) National highway boundaries(1) Realignment of boundariesThe Secretary may realign national highways related to proposed changes to the Northern and Southern Interchanges and the E Street Approach recommended in the TEA–21 report in order to facilitate the flow of traffic in the vicinity of the Center.


(2) Access to Center from I–66The Secretary may improve direct access and egress between Interstate Route 66 and the Center, including its garages.



(g) GAO reviewUntil completion of the Project, the Comptroller General shall review the management and oversight of construction of the Project by the Board and report periodically on the results of the review to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.


(Pub. L. 85–874, § 12, as added Pub. L. 107–224, § 2(2), Sept. 18, 2002, 116 Stat. 1340; amended Pub. L. 108–410, § 3, Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2303.)


References in TextSection 1214 of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, referred to in subsec. (a)(7), is section 1214 of Pub. L. 105–178, which enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 50 and 76j of this title, section 460m–29a of Title 16, Conservation, and section 202 of Title 23, Highways, and enacted provisions listed in a table of National Wildlife Refuges set out under section 668dd of Title 16.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 12 of Pub. L. 85–874 was renumbered section 13 and is classified to section 76r of this title.

Amendments2004—Subsec. (b)(6). Pub. L. 108–410, § 3(a), added par. (6).
Subsec. (c)(1), (3). Pub. L. 108–410, § 3(b)(1), (2), inserted “, in consultation with the Project Team,” after “The Board”.
Subsec. (c)(5). Pub. L. 108–410, § 3(b)(3), added par. (5).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 108–410, § 3(c), added subsec. (g).


