§ 3006. Review committee(a) EstablishmentWithin 120 days after November 16, 1990, the Secretary shall establish a committee to monitor and review the implementation of the inventory and identification process and repatriation activities required under sections 3003, 3004 and 3005 of this title.


(b) Membership(1) The Committee 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. established under subsection (a) of this section shall be composed of 7 members,(A) 3 of whom shall be appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted by Indian tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations, and traditional Native American religious leaders with at least 2 of such persons being traditional Indian religious leaders;

(B) 3 of whom shall be appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted by national museum organizations and scientific organizations; and

(C) 1 who shall be appointed by the Secretary from a list of persons developed and consented to by all of the members appointed pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B).


(2) The Secretary may not appoint Federal officers or employees to the committee.

(3) In the event vacancies shall occur, such vacancies shall be filled by the Secretary in the same manner as the original appointment within 90 days of the occurrence of such vacancy.

(4) Members of the committee established under subsection (a) of this section shall serve without pay, but shall be reimbursed at a rate equal to the daily rate for GS–18 of the General Schedule for each day (including travel time) for which the member is actually engaged in committee business. Each member shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5.


(c) ResponsibilitiesThe committee established under subsection (a) of this section shall be responsible for—(1) designating one of the members of the committee as chairman;

(2) monitoring the inventory and identification process conducted under sections 3003 and 3004 of this title to ensure a fair, objective consideration and assessment of all available relevant information and evidence;

(3) upon the request of any affected party, reviewing and making findings related to—(A) the identity or cultural affiliation of cultural items, or

(B) the return of such items;


(4) facilitating the resolution of any disputes among Indian tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations, or lineal descendants and Federal agencies or museums relating to the return of such items including convening the parties to the dispute if deemed desirable;

(5) compiling an inventory of culturally unidentifiable human remains that are in the possession or control of each Federal agency and museum and recommending specific actions for developing a process for disposition of such remains;

(6) consulting with Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations and museums on matters within the scope of the work of the committee affecting such tribes or organizations;

(7) consulting with the Secretary in the development of regulations to carry out this chapter;

(8) performing such other related functions as the Secretary may assign to the committee; and

(9) making recommendations, if appropriate, regarding future care of cultural items which are to be repatriated.


(d) Admissibility of records and findingsAny records and findings made by the review committee pursuant to this chapter relating to the identity or cultural affiliation of any cultural items and the return of such items may be admissible in any action brought under section 3013 of this title.


(e) Recommendations and reportThe committee shall make the recommendations under paragraph 22 So in original. Probably should be “subsection”. (c)(5) in consultation with Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations and appropriate scientific and museum groups.


(f) AccessThe Secretary shall ensure that the committee established under subsection (a) of this section and the members of the committee have reasonable access to Native American cultural items under review and to associated scientific and historical documents.


(g) Duties of SecretaryThe Secretary shall—(1) establish such rules and regulations for the committee as may be necessary, and

(2) provide reasonable administrative and staff support necessary for the deliberations of the committee.


(h) Annual reportThe committee established under subsection (a) of this section shall submit an annual report to the Congress on the progress made, and any barriers encountered, in implementing this section during the previous year.


(i) TerminationThe committee established under subsection (a) of this section shall terminate at the end of the 120-day period beginning on the day the Secretary certifies, in a report submitted to Congress, that the work of the committee has been completed.


(Pub. L. 101–601, § 8, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3055.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (c)(7) and (d), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 101–601, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3048, known as the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3001 of this title and Tables.

References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay RatesReferences in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of Pub. L. 101–509, set out in a note under section 5376 of Title 5.


