§ 7842. Optional consolidated State plans or applications(a) General authority(1) SimplificationIn order to simplify application requirements and reduce the burden for State educational agencies under this chapter, the Secretary, in accordance with subsection (b) of this section, shall establish procedures and criteria under which, after consultation with the Governor, a State educational agency may submit a consolidated State plan or a consolidated State application meeting the requirements of this section for—(A) each of the covered programs in which the State participates; and

(B) such other programs as the Secretary may designate.


(2) Consolidated applications and plansAfter consultation with the Governor, a State educational agency that submits a consolidated State plan or a consolidated State application under this section shall not be required to submit separate State plans or applications under any of the programs to which the consolidated State plan or consolidated State application under this section applies.



(b) Collaboration(1) In generalIn establishing criteria and procedures under this section, the Secretary shall collaborate with State educational agencies and, as appropriate, with other State agencies, local educational agencies, public and private nonprofit agencies, organizations, and institutions, private schools, and representatives of parents, students, and teachers.


(2) ContentsThrough the collaborative process described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall establish, for each program under this chapter to which this section applies, the descriptions, information, assurances, and other material required to be included in a consolidated State plan or consolidated State application.


(3) Necessary materialsThe Secretary shall require only descriptions, information, assurances (including assurances of compliance with applicable provisions regarding participation by private school children and teachers), and other materials that are absolutely necessary for the consideration of the consolidated State plan or consolidated State application.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title IX, § 9302, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title IX, § 901, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1968.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 9302 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 7932 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


