“Sec. 3. (a) There is hereby established in the United States Treasury a fund to be known as the Houlton Band Tax Fund in which shall be deposited $200,000 in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

“(b)(1) Income accrued on the land acquisition fund established for the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians pursuant to subsections (c) and (d)(1) of section 5 of the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980 (25 U.S.C. 1724; 94 Stat. 1789) shall be transferred to the Houlton Band Tax Fund. No transfer shall be made under this subsection if such transfer would diminish such land acquisition fund to a balance of less than $900,000.

“(2) Whenever funds are transferred to the Houlton Band Tax Fund pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary shall publish notice of such transfer in the Federal Register. Such notice shall specify when the full amount of $200,000 has been transferred to the Houlton Band Tax Fund.


“(c) The Secretary shall manage the Houlton Band Tax Fund in accordance with the first section of the Act of June 24, 1938 (25 U.S.C. 162a), and shall utilize the principal and interest of such Fund only as provided in subsection (d) and for no other purpose.

“(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3727 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary shall pay out of the Houlton Band Tax Fund all valid claims for taxes, payments in lieu of property taxes, and fees, together with any interest and penalties thereon—“(1) for which the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians are determined to be liable under the terms of section 6208–A(2) of the amended Maine Implementing Act,

“(2) which are final and not subject to further administrative or judicial review, and

“(3) which have been certified by the Commissioner of Finance and Administration of the State of Maine as valid claims (within the meaning of section 6208–A(2) of the amended Maine Implementing Act) that meet the requirements of this subsection.


“(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if—“(1) the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians is liable to the State of Maine or any county, district, municipality, city, town, village, plantation, or any other political subdivision thereof for any tax, payment in lieu of property tax, or fees, together with any interest or penalties thereon, and

“(2) there are insufficient funds in the Houlton Band Tax Fund to pay such tax, payment, or fee (together with any interest or penalties thereon) in full,


the deficiency shall be paid by the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians only from income-producing property owned by such Band which is not held in trust for such Band by the United States, and such Band shall not be required to pay such tax, payment, or fee (or any interest or penalty thereon) from any other source.

“(f) The Secretary shall, after consultation with the Commissioner of Finance and Administration of the State of Maine and the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians, prescribe written procedures governing the filing and payment of claims under this section and section 6208–A of the amended Maine Implementing Act.

