§ 7906. Technology demonstration projects(a) In generalThe Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, shall promote the adoption of technologies and practices that reduce greenhouse gas intensity in developing countries in accordance with this section.


(b) Demonstration projects(1) In generalThe Secretaries and the Administrator shall plan, coordinate, and carry out, or provide assistance for the planning, coordination, or carrying out of, demonstration projects under this section in at least 10 eligible countries, as determined by the Secretaries and the Administrator.


(2) EligibilityA country shall be eligible for assistance under this subsection if the Secretaries and the Administrator determine that the country has demonstrated a commitment to—(A) just governance, including—(i) promoting the rule of law;

(ii) respecting human and civil rights;

(iii) protecting private property rights; and

(iv) combating corruption; and


(B) economic freedom, including economic policies that—(i) encourage citizens and firms to participate in global trade and international capital markets;

(ii) promote private sector growth and the sustainable management of natural resources; and

(iii) strengthen market forces in the economy.



(3) SelectionIn determining which eligible countries to provide assistance to under paragraph (1), the Secretaries and the Administrator shall consider—(A) the opportunity to reduce greenhouse gas intensity in the eligible country; and

(B) the opportunity to generate economic growth in the eligible country.


(4) Types of projectsDemonstration projects under this section may include—(A) coal gasification, coal liquefaction, and clean coal projects;

(B) carbon sequestration projects;

(C) cogeneration technology initiatives;

(D) renewable projects; and

(E) lower emission transportation.



(Pub. L. 101–240, title VII, § 736, as added Pub. L. 109–58, title XVI, § 1611, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 1116.)
