§ 5452. Environmental initiatives for Poland and Hungary(a) Priority for control of pollutionThe Congress recognizes the severe pollution problems affecting Poland and Hungary and the serious health problems which ensue from such pollution. The Congress therefore directs that a high priority be given in the implementation of assistance to Poland and Hungary to the control of pollution and the restoration of the natural resource base on which a sustainable, healthy economy depends.


(b) EPA activities generallyIn addition to specific authorities contained in any of the environmental statutes administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Administrator of that Agency (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Administrator”) is authorized to undertake such educational, policy training, research, and technical and financial assistance, monitoring, coordinating, and other activities as the Administrator may deem appropriate, either alone or in cooperation with other United States or foreign agencies, governments, or public or private institutions, in protecting the environment in Poland and Hungary.


(c) EPA activities in PolandThe Administrator shall cooperate with Polish officials and experts to—(1) establish an air quality monitoring network in the Krakow metropolitan area as a part of Poland’s national air monitoring network; and

(2) improve both water quality and the availability of drinking water in the Krakow metropolitan area.


(d) EPA activities in HungaryThe Administrator shall work with other United States and Hungarian officials and private parties to establish and support a regional center in Budapest for facilitating cooperative environmental activities between governmental experts and public and private organizations from the United States and Eastern and Western Europe.


(e) Funding of EPA activitiesTo enable the Environmental Protection Agency to carry out subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for the 3-year period beginning October 1, 1989, to carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 and following; relating to development assistance) or chapter 4 of Part 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. II of that Act (22 U.S.C. 2346 and following; relating to the economic support fund). These funds may be used to carry out those subsections notwithstanding any provision of law relating to the use of foreign assistance funds.


(f) Department of Energy activities relating to fossil fuels(1) Clean coalThe Secretary of Energy shall cooperate with Polish officials and experts to retrofit a coal-fired commercial powerplant in the Krakow, Poland, region with advanced clean coal technology that has been successfully demonstrated at a comparably scaled powerplant in the United States. Such retrofit shall be carried out by one or more United States companies using United States technology and equipment manufactured in the United States. The Secretary may vest title in any property acquired under this paragraph in an entity other than the United States.


(2) Equipment assessmentThe Secretary of Energy shall cooperate with Polish officials and experts and companies within the United States to assess and develop the capability within Poland to manufacture or modify boilers, furnaces, smelters, or other equipment that will enable industrial facilities within Poland to use fossil fuels cleanly. The Secretary may vest title in any property acquired under this paragraph in an entity other than the United States.


(3) Authorization of appropriationsTo carry out paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, there are authorized to be appropriated $30,000,000 for the 3-year period beginning October 1, 1989. Not more than $10,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this paragraph may be used to carry out the requirements of paragraph (1).



(g) Priority for efficient energy useIn view of the high energy usage per unit of output in Hungary and Poland, the Secretary of Energy shall give high priority to assisting officials of Poland and Hungary in improving the efficiency of their energy use, through emphasis on such measures as efficient motors, lights, gears, and appliances and improvements in building insulation and design.


(h) Alternative investments in energy in HungaryIt is the sense of the Congress that the Executive branch should work with the Government of Hungary to achieve environmentally safe alternative investments in energy efficiency, particularly with regard to projects along the Danube River.


(Pub. L. 101–179, title V, § 502, Nov. 28, 1989, 103 Stat. 1317.)


References in TextThe Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, referred to in subsec. (e), is Pub. L. 87–195, Sept. 4, 1961, 75 Stat. 424, as amended. Chapter 1 of part I and chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 are classified generally to part I (§ 2151 et seq.) of subchapter I and part IV (§ 2346 et seq.) of subchapter II, respectively, of chapter 32 of this title. For provisions deeming references to part I of subchapter I to include a reference to section 2293 of this title, see section 2293(d)(1) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2151 of this title and Tables.


