§ 6396. Comprehensive needs assessment and service-delivery plan; authorized activities(a) Comprehensive plan(1) In generalEach State that receives assistance under this part shall ensure that the State and its local operating agencies identify and address the special educational needs of migratory children in accordance with a comprehensive State plan that—(A) is integrated with other programs under this chapter or other Acts, as appropriate;

(B) may be submitted as a part of a consolidated application under section 7842 of this title, if—(i) the special needs of migratory children are specifically addressed in the comprehensive State plan;

(ii) the comprehensive State plan is developed in collaboration with parents of migratory children; and

(iii) the comprehensive State plan is not used to supplant State efforts regarding, or administrative funding for, this part;


(C) provides that migratory children will have an opportunity to meet the same challenging State academic content standards and challenging State student academic achievement standards that all children are expected to meet;

(D) specifies measurable program goals and outcomes;

(E) encompasses the full range of services that are available for migratory children from appropriate local, State, and Federal educational programs;

(F) is the product of joint planning among such local, State, and Federal programs, including programs under part A of this subchapter, early childhood programs, and language instruction educational programs under part A or B of subchapter III of this chapter; and

(G) provides for the integration of services available under this part with services provided by such other programs.


(2) Duration of the planEach such comprehensive State plan shall—(A) remain in effect for the duration of the State’s participation under this part; and

(B) be periodically reviewed and revised by the State, as necessary, to reflect changes in the State’s strategies and programs under this part.



(b) Authorized activities(1) FlexibilityIn implementing the comprehensive plan described in subsection (a) of this section, each State educational agency, where applicable through its local educational agencies, shall have the flexibility to determine the activities to be provided with funds made available under this part, except that such funds first shall be used to meet the identified needs of migratory children that result from their migratory lifestyle, and to permit these children to participate effectively in school.


(2) Unaddressed needsFunds provided under this part shall be used to address the needs of migratory children that are not addressed by services available from other Federal or non-Federal programs, except that migratory children who are eligible to receive services under part A of this subchapter may receive those services through funds provided under that part, or through funds under this part that remain after the agency addresses the needs described in paragraph (1).


(3) ConstructionNothing in this part shall be construed to prohibit a local educational agency from serving migratory children simultaneously with students with similar educational needs in the same educational settings, where appropriate.


(4) Special ruleNotwithstanding section 6314 of this title, a school that receives funds under this part shall continue to address the identified needs described in paragraph (1), and shall meet the special educational needs of migratory children before using funds under this part for schoolwide programs under section 6314 of this title.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1306, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1576.)

References to Parts A and B of Subchapter III Considered To Be References to Parts B and A of Subchapter IIIReferences to parts A and B of subchapter III of this chapter are considered to be references to parts B and A, respectively, of subchapter III of this chapter in certain fiscal years. See section 6801(c) of this title.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6396, Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1306, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3589, related to comprehensive needs assessments and service-delivery plans, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


