§ 3245. Reports; recordkeeping; investigations(a) Recipient recordkeeping and reports(1) In generalRecipients of funds under this subchapter shall keep records that are sufficient to permit the preparation of reports required by this subchapter and to permit the tracing of funds to a level of expenditure adequate to ensure that the funds have not been spent unlawfully.


(2) Records and reports regarding general performanceEvery such recipient shall maintain such records and submit such reports, in such form and containing such information, as the Secretary may require regarding the performance of programs and activities carried out under this subchapter. Such records and reports shall be submitted to the Secretary but shall not be required to be submitted more than once each quarter unless specifically requested by Congress or a committee of Congress, in which case an estimate regarding such information may be provided.


(3) Maintenance of standardized recordsIn order to allow for the preparation of the reports required under subsection (c), such recipients shall maintain standardized records for all individual participants and provide to the Secretary a sufficient number of such records to provide for an adequate analysis of the records.


(4) Availability to the public(A) In generalExcept as provided in subparagraph (B), records maintained by such recipients pursuant to this subsection shall be made available to the public upon request.


(B) ExceptionSubparagraph (A) shall not apply to—(i) information, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; and

(ii) trade secrets, or commercial or financial information, that is—(I) obtained from a person; and

(II) privileged or confidential.



(C) Fees to recover costsSuch recipients may charge fees sufficient to recover costs applicable to the processing of requests for records under subparagraph (A).




(b) Investigations of use of funds(1) In general(A) SecretaryIn order to evaluate compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, the Secretary shall conduct, in several States, in each fiscal year, investigations of the use of funds received by recipients under this subchapter.


(B) Comptroller general of the United StatesIn order to ensure compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, the Comptroller General of the United States may conduct investigations of the use of funds received under this subchapter by any recipient.



(2) ProhibitionIn conducting any investigation under this subchapter, the Secretary or the Comptroller General of the United States may not request the compilation of any information that the recipient is not otherwise required to compile and that is not readily available to such recipient.


(3) Audits(A) In generalIn carrying out any audit under this subchapter (other than any initial audit survey or any audit investigating possible criminal or fraudulent conduct), either directly or through grant or contract, the Secretary, the Inspector General of the Department of Labor, or the Comptroller General of the United States shall furnish to the State, recipient, or other entity to be audited, advance notification of the overall objectives and purposes of the audit, and any extensive recordkeeping or data requirements to be met, not later than 14 days (or as soon as practicable) prior to the commencement of the audit.


(B) Notification requirementIf the scope, objectives, or purposes of the audit change substantially during the course of the audit, the entity being audited shall be notified of the change as soon as practicable.


(C) Additional requirementThe reports on the results of such audits shall cite the law, regulation, policy, or other criteria applicable to any finding contained in the reports.


(D) Rule of constructionNothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed so as to be inconsistent with the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) or government auditing standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States.




(c) Grantee information responsibilitiesEach State, each local board, and each recipient (other than a subrecipient, subgrantee, or contractor of a recipient) receiving funds under this subchapter—(1) shall make readily accessible such reports concerning its operations and expenditures as shall be prescribed by the Secretary;

(2) shall prescribe and maintain comparable management information systems, in accordance with guidelines that shall be prescribed by the Secretary, designed to facilitate the uniform compilation, cross tabulation, and analysis of programmatic, participant, and financial data, on statewide, local area, and other appropriate bases, necessary for reporting, monitoring, and evaluating purposes, including data necessary to comply with section 3248 of this title;

(3) shall monitor the performance of providers in complying with the terms of grants, contracts, or other agreements made pursuant to this subchapter; and

(4) shall, to the extent practicable, submit or make available (including through electronic means) any reports, records, plans, or any other data that are required to be submitted or made available, respectively, under this subchapter.


(d) Information to be included in reports(1) In generalThe reports required in subsection (c) shall include information regarding programs and activities carried out under this subchapter pertaining to—(A) the relevant demographic characteristics (including race, ethnicity, sex, and age) and other related information regarding participants;

(B) the programs and activities in which participants are enrolled, and the length of time that participants are engaged in such programs and activities;

(C) outcomes of the programs and activities for participants, including the occupations of participants, and placement for participants in nontraditional employment;

(D) specified costs of the programs and activities; and

(E) information necessary to prepare reports to comply with section 3248 of this title.


(2) Additional requirementThe Secretary shall ensure that all elements of the information required for the reports described in paragraph (1) are defined and that the information is reported uniformly.



(e) Quarterly financial reports(1) In generalEach local board in a State shall submit quarterly financial reports to the Governor with respect to programs and activities carried out under this subchapter. Such reports shall include information identifying all program and activity costs by cost category in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and by year of the appropriation involved.


(2) Additional requirementEach State shall submit to the Secretary, and the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives, on a quarterly basis, a summary of the reports submitted to the Governor pursuant to paragraph (1).



(f) Maintenance of additional recordsEach State and local board shall maintain records with respect to programs and activities carried out under this subchapter that identify—(1) any income or profits earned, including such income or profits earned by subrecipients; and

(2) any costs incurred (such as stand-in costs) that are otherwise allowable except for funding limitations.


(g) Cost categoriesIn requiring entities to maintain records of costs by cost category under this subchapter, the Secretary shall require only that the costs be categorized as administrative or programmatic costs.


(Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 185, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1594.)


References in TextThe Inspector General Act of 1978, referred to in subsec. (b)(3)(D), is Pub. L. 95–452, Oct. 12, 1978, 92 Stat. 1101, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Effective DateSection effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 [probably July 1, 2015], see section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128, set out as a note under section 3101 of this title.


