“SEC. 5. COMMISSION PERSONNEL MATTERS.“(a) Compensation.—No member of the Commission who is a private citizen shall be compensated for service on the Commission. All members of the Commission who are officers or employees of the United States shall serve without compensation in addition to that received for their services as officers or employees of the United States.

“(b) Travel Expenses.—The members of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission.

“(c) Executive Director, Deputy Executive Director, General Counsel, and Other Staff.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 90 days after the selection of the Chairperson of the Commission under section 2, the Chairperson shall, without regard to the civil service laws and regulations, appoint an executive director, a deputy executive director, and a general counsel of the Commission, and such other additional personnel as may be necessary to enable the Commission to perform its duties under this Act.

“(2) Qualifications.—The executive director, deputy executive director, and general counsel of the Commission shall be appointed without regard to political affiliation, and shall possess all necessary security clearances for such positions.

“(3) Duties of executive director.—The executive director of the Commission shall—“(A) serve as principal liaison between the Commission and other Government entities;

“(B) be responsible for the administration and coordination of the review of records by the Commission; and

“(C) be responsible for coordinating all official activities of the Commission.


“(4) Compensation.—The Chairperson of the Commission may fix the compensation of the executive director, deputy executive director, general counsel, and other personnel employed by the Commission, without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to classification of positions and General Schedule pay rates, except that—“(A) the rate of pay for the executive director of the Commission may not exceed the rate payable for level III of the Executive Schedule under section 5314 of title 5, United States Code; and

“(B) the rate of pay for the deputy executive director, the general counsel of the Commission, and other Commission personnel may not exceed the rate payable for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.


“(5) Employee benefits.—“(A) In general.—An employee of the Commission shall be an employee for purposes of chapters 83, 84, 85, 87, and 89 of title 5, United States Code, and service as an employee of the Commission shall be service for purposes of such chapters.

“(B) Nonapplication to members.—This paragraph shall not apply to a member of the Commission.


“(6) Office of personnel management.—The Office of Personnel Management—“(A) may promulgate regulations to apply the provisions referred to under subsection (a) to employees of the Commission; and

“(B) shall provide support services, on a reimbursable basis, relating to—“(i) the initial employment of employees of the Commission; and

“(ii) other personnel needs of the Commission.




“(d) Detail of Government Employees.—Any Federal Government employee may be detailed to the Commission without reimbursement to the agency of that employee, and such detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.

“(e) Procurement of Temporary and Intermittent Services.—The Chairperson of the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals which do not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title.

“(f) Staff Qualifications.—Any person appointed to the staff of or employed by the Commission shall be an individual of integrity and impartiality.

“(g) Conditional Employment.—“(1) In general.—The Commission may offer employment on a conditional basis to a prospective employee pending the completion of any necessary security clearance background investigation. During the pendency of any such investigation, the Commission shall ensure that such conditional employee is not given and does not have access to or responsibility involving classified or otherwise restricted material.

“(2) Termination.—If a person hired on a conditional basis as described in paragraph (1) is denied or otherwise does not qualify for all security clearances necessary for the fulfillment of the responsibilities of that person as an employee of the Commission, the Commission shall immediately terminate the employment of that person with the Commission.


“(h) Expedited Security Clearance Procedures.—A candidate for executive director or deputy executive director of the Commission and any potential employee of the Commission shall, to the maximum extent possible, be investigated or otherwise evaluated for and granted, if applicable, any necessary security clearances on an expedited basis.

