§ 711e. Reservation(a) EstablishmentAny reservation for the tribe shall be established by an Act of Congress enacted after November 18, 1977.


(b) Plan; negotiation with tribe; approval by tribal officials; submittal to CongressInasmuch as the reservation of the tribe has been terminated, the Secretary shall negotiate with the tribe, or with representatives of the tribe chosen by the tribe, concerning the establishment of a reservation for the tribe and shall, in accordance with subsections (c) and (d) of this section and within two years after November 18, 1977, develop a plan for the establishment of a reservation for the tribe. Upon approval of such plan by the tribal officials elected under the tribal constitution and bylaws adopted pursuant to section 711d of this title, the Secretary shall submit such plan, in the form of proposed legislation, to the Congress.


(c) Notification and consultationTo assure that legitimate State and local interests are not prejudiced by the creation of a reservation for the tribe, the Secretary, in developing a plan under subsection (b) of this section for the establishment of a reservation, shall notify and consult with all appropriate officials of the State of Oregon, all appropriate local governmental officials in the State of Oregon and any other interested parties. Such consultation shall include the following subjects:(1) the size and location of the reservation;

(2) the effect the establishment of the reservation would have on State and local tax revenues;

(3) the criminal and civil jurisdiction of the State of Oregon with respect to the reservation and persons on the reservation;

(4) hunting, fishing, and trapping rights of the tribe and members of the tribe, on the reservation;

(5) the provision of State and local services to the reservation and to the tribe and members of the tribe on the reservation; and

(6) the provision of Federal services to the reservation and to the tribe and members of the tribe and the provision of services by the tribe to members of the tribe.


(d) Provisions of planAny plan developed under this section for the establishment of a reservation for the tribe shall provide that—(1) any real property transferred by the tribe or members of the tribe to the Secretary shall be taken in the name of the United States in trust for the benefit of the tribe and shall be the reservation for the tribe;

(2) the establishment of such a reservation will not grant or restore to the tribe or any member of the tribe any hunting, fishing, or trapping right of any nature, including any indirect or procedural right or advantage, on such reservation;

(3) the Secretary shall not accept any real property in trust for the benefit of the tribe or its members unless such real property is located within Lincoln County, State of Oregon;

(4) any real property taken in trust by the Secretary for the benefit of the tribe or its members shall be subject to all rights existing at the time such property is taken in trust, including liens, outstanding Federal, State, and local taxes, mortgages, outstanding indebtedness of any kind, easements, and all other obligations, and shall be subject to foreclosure and sale in accordance with the laws of the State of Oregon;

(5) the transfer of any real property to the Secretary in trust for the benefit of the tribe or its members shall be exempt from all Federal, State, and local taxation, and all such real property shall, as of the date of such transfer, be exempt from Federal, State, and local taxation; and

(6) the State of Oregon shall have civil and criminal jurisdiction with respect to the reservation and persons on the reservation in accordance with section 1360 of title 28 and section 1162 of title 18.


(e) StatementThe Secretary shall append to the plan a detailed statement describing the manner in which the notification and consultation prescribed by subsection (c) of this section was carried out and shall include any written comments with respect to the establishment of a reservation for the tribe submitted to the Secretary by State and local officials and other interested parties in the course of such consultation.


(Pub. L. 95–195, § 7, Nov. 18, 1977, 91 Stat. 1418.)

Authority To Erect Permanent Improvements on Land Acquired for Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of OregonPub. L. 97–38, Aug. 14, 1981, 95 Stat. 938, provided: 
“That, notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, the Attorney General shall approve any deed or other instrument which—“(1) conveys to the United States the land described in section 2 of the Act entitled ‘An Act to establish a reservation for the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of Oregon’, approved September 4, 1980 (94 Stat. 1073) [set out below], and

“(2) incorporates by reference the terms of the agreement entered into on September 18, 1980, by the city of Siletz, Oregon, the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of Oregon, and the United States of America.


The Secretary of the Interior or the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of Oregon may erect permanent improvements, improvements of a substantial value, or any other improvements authorized by law on such land after such land is conveyed to the United States.”
