§ 8303. Office of Volunteers for Prosperity(a) FunctionsThe VfP Office shall pursue the objectives of the VfP Program described in subsection (b) by—(1) implementing the VfPServe Program to provide eligible skilled professionals with matching grants to offset the travel and living expenses of volunteering abroad with nonprofit organizations;

(2) otherwise promoting short- and long-term international volunteer service by skilled American professionals, including connecting such professionals with nonprofit organizations, to achieve such objectives;

(3) helping nonprofit organizations in the United States recruit and effectively manage additional skilled American professionals for volunteer assignments throughout the developing world;

(4) providing recognition for skilled American volunteers and the organizations deploying them;

(5) helping nonprofit organizations and corporations in the United States to identify resources and opportunities in international volunteer service utilizing skilled Americans;

(6) encouraging the establishment of international volunteer programs for employees of United States corporations; and

(7) encouraging international voluntary service by highly skilled Americans to promote health and prosperity throughout the world.


(b) VfP Program objectivesThe objectives of the VfP Program should include—(1) eliminating extreme poverty;

(2) reducing world hunger and malnutrition;

(3) increasing access to safe potable water;

(4) enacting universal education;

(5) reducing child mortality and childhood diseases;

(6) combating the spread of preventable diseases, including HIV, malaria, and tuberculosis;

(7) providing educational and work skill support for girls and empowering women to achieve independence;

(8) creating sustainable business and entrepreneurial opportunities; and

(9) increasing access to information technology.


(c) Volunteers for Prosperity Service Incentive Program(1) In generalThe VfP Office may provide matching grants to offset the travel and living costs of volunteering abroad to any eligible organization that—(A) has members who possess skills relevant to addressing any objective described in subsection (b); and

(B) provides a dollar-for-dollar match for such grant—(i) through the organization with which the individual is serving; or

(ii) by raising private funds.



(2) Nondiscrimination requirementThe VfP Office may not provide a stipend to an individual under paragraph (1) unless the nonprofit organization to which the individual is assigned has certified to the VfP Office that it does not discriminate with respect to any project or activity receiving Federal financial assistance, including a stipend under this chapter, because of race, religion, color, national origin, sex, political affiliation, or beliefs.


(3) Compliance with ineligible service categoriesService carried out by a volunteer receiving funds under this section may not provide a direct benefit to any—(A) business organized for profit;

(B) labor union;

(C) partisan political organization; or

(D) religious or faith-based organization for the purpose of proselytization, worship or any other explicitly religious activity.



(d) Funding(1) In generalThe Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall make available the amounts appropriated pursuant to section 8304 of this title to the VfP Office to pursue the objectives described in subsection (b) by carrying out the functions described in subsection (a).


(2) Use of fundsAmounts made available under paragraph (1) may be used by the VfP Office to provide personnel and other resources to develop, manage, and expand the VfP Program, under the supervision of the United States Agency for International Development.



(e) CoordinationThe VfP Office shall coordinate its efforts with other public and private efforts that aim to send skilled professionals to serve in developing nations.


(f) ReportThe VfP Office shall submit an annual report to Congress on the activities of the VfP Office.


(Pub. L. 111–13, title V, § 5103, Apr. 21, 2009, 123 Stat. 1598.)
