§ 1721. Congressional findings and declaration of policy(a) Findings and declarationsCongress hereby finds and declares that:(1) The Passamaquoddy Tribe, the Penobscot Nation, and the Maliseet Tribe are asserting claims for possession of lands within the State of Maine and for damages on the ground that the lands in question were originally transferred in violation of law, including, but without limitation, the Trade and Intercourse Act of 1790 (1 Stat. 137), or subsequent reenactments or versions thereof.

(2) The Indians, Indian nations, and tribes and bands of Indians, other than the Passamaquoddy Tribe, the Penobscot Nation, and the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians, that once may have held aboriginal title to lands within the State of Maine long ago abandoned their aboriginal holdings.

(3) The Penobscot Nation, as represented as of the time of passage of this subchapter by the Penobscot Nation’s Governor and Council, is the sole successor in interest to the aboriginal entity generally known as the Penobscot Nation which years ago claimed aboriginal title to certain lands in the State of Maine.

(4) The Passamaquoddy Tribe, as represented as of the time of passage of this subchapter by the Joint Tribal Council of the Passamaquoddy Tribe, is the sole successor in interest to the aboriginal entity generally known as the Passamaquoddy Tribe which years ago claimed aboriginal title to certain lands in the State of Maine.

(5) The Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians, as represented as of the time of passage of this subchapter by the Houlton Band Council, is the sole successor in interest, as to lands within the United States, to the aboriginal entity generally known as the Maliseet Tribe which years ago claimed aboriginal title to certain lands in the State of Maine.

(6) Substantial economic and social hardship to a large number of landowners, citizens, and communities in the State of Maine, and therefore to the economy of the State of Maine as a whole, will result if the aforementioned claims are not resolved promptly.

(7) This subchapter represents a good faith effort on the part of Congress to provide the Passamaquoddy Tribe, the Penobscot Nation, and the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians with a fair and just settlement of their land claims. In the absence of congressional action, these land claims would be pursued through the courts, a process which in all likelihood would consume many years and thereby promote hostility and uncertainty in the State of Maine to the ultimate detriment of the Passamaquoddy Tribe, the Penobscot Nation, the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians, their members, and all other citizens of the State of Maine.

(8) The State of Maine, with the agreement of the Passamaquoddy Tribe and the Penobscot Nation, has enacted legislation defining the relationship between the Passamaquoddy Tribe, the Penobscot Nation, and their members, and the State of Maine.

(9) Since 1820, the State of Maine has provided special services to the Indians residing within its borders, including the members of the Passamaquoddy Tribe, the Penobscot Nation, and the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians. During this same period, the United States provided few special services to the respective tribe, nation, or band, and repeatedly denied that it had jurisdiction over or responsibility for the said tribe, nation, and band. In view of this provision of special services by the State of Maine, requiring substantial expenditures by the State of Maine and made by the State of Maine without being required to do so by Federal law, it is the intent of Congress that the State of Maine not be required further to contribute directly to this claims settlement.


(b) PurposesIt is the purpose of this subchapter—(1) to remove the cloud on the titles to land in the State of Maine resulting from Indian claims;

(2) to clarify the status of other land and natural resources in the State of Maine;

(3) to ratify the Maine Implementing Act, which defines the relationship between the State of Maine and the Passamaquoddy Tribe, and the Penobscot Nation, and

(4) to confirm that all other Indians, Indian nations and tribes and bands of Indians now or hereafter existing or recognized in the State of Maine are and shall be subject to all laws of the State of Maine, as provided herein.


(Pub. L. 96–420, § 2, Oct. 10, 1980, 94 Stat. 1785.)


References in TextThe Trade and Intercourse Act of 1790 (1 Stat. 137), referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is act July 22, 1790, ch. 33, 1 Stat. 137, which was not classified to the Code. See sections 177, 179, 180, 193, 194, 201, 229, 230, 251, 263, and 264 of this title.

Short TitlePub. L. 96–420, § 1, Oct. 10, 1980, 94 Stat. 1785, provided: “That this Act [enacting this subchapter] may be cited as the ‘Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980’.”


Aroostook Band of Micmacs SettlementPub. L. 102–171, Nov. 26, 1991, 105 Stat. 1143, provided that:
“SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.“This Act may be cited as the ‘Aroostook Band of Micmacs Settlement Act’.

