“Sec. 4. (a) There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah Economic Development and Tribal Government Fund. This Fund shall be held in trust for the benefit of the tribe and administered in accordance with this Act.

“(b)(1) One-half of the principal of the Fund shall be designated as the Economic Development Fund and the remaining one-half as the Tribal Government Fund. Each portion of the Fund shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with reasonable terms established by the tribe and agreed to by the Secretary. The Secretary shall not agree to terms which provide for the investment of the Fund in a manner not in accordance with section 1 of the Act of June 24, 1938 (52 Stat. 1037) [25 U.S.C. 162a], unless the tribe first submits a specific waiver of liability on the part of the United States for any loss which may result from such an investment. Until such terms have been agreed upon, the Secretary shall fix the terms for the administration of any portion of the Fund as to which there is no agreement.

“(2) Under no circumstances shall any part of the principal of the Fund be distributed to the tribe, or to any member of the tribe, nor shall income accruing to the Fund be used for per capita payments to any member of the tribe.

“(3) The Secretary shall make available to the tribe in quarterly payments, without any deductions, any income received from the investment of each fund. The use of the income from the Tribal Government Fund shall be free of regulation by the Secretary. The use of the income from the Economic Development Fund shall be consistent with an economic development plan developed by the tribe and approved by the Secretary. The Secretary shall approve such plan within sixty days of its submission if he finds that it is reasonably related to the economic development of the tribe. If the Secretary does not approve such plan, he shall, at the time of his decision, set forth in writing the reasons for his disapproval. With the approval of the Secretary, the tribe may alter the economic development plan subject to the conditions set forth in this section.


“(c) There is authorized to be appropriated in fiscal year 1985 the sum of $2,500,000, which shall be deposited in the Fund. Not more than 5 per centum of any amount appropriated to the Fund under this section may be obligated or spent by the tribe under any contract or agreement relating to the employment of legal counsel.

“(d) The transfer of the approximately four thousand seven hundred and seventy acres of land and the appropriation of the $2,500,000 authorized by this Act shall be in complete fulfillment of the provisions of Public Law 96–227 [this subchapter] relating to the enlargement of the tribe’s reservation.

