§ 350i. Protection against intentional adulteration(a) Determinations(1) In generalThe Secretary shall—(A) conduct a vulnerability assessment of the food system, including by consideration of the Department of Homeland Security biological, chemical, radiological, or other terrorism risk assessments;

(B) consider the best available understanding of uncertainties, risks, costs, and benefits associated with guarding against intentional adulteration of food at vulnerable points; and

(C) determine the types of science-based mitigation strategies or measures that are necessary to protect against the intentional adulteration of food.


(2) Limited distributionIn the interest of national security, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may determine the time, manner, and form in which determinations made under paragraph (1) are made publicly available.



(b) RegulationsNot later than 18 months after January 4, 2011, the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security and in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall promulgate regulations to protect against the intentional adulteration of food subject to this chapter. Such regulations shall—(1) specify how a person shall assess whether the person is required to implement mitigation strategies or measures intended to protect against the intentional adulteration of food; and

(2) specify appropriate science-based mitigation strategies or measures to prepare and protect the food supply chain at specific vulnerable points, as appropriate.


(c) ApplicabilityRegulations promulgated under subsection (b) shall apply only to food for which there is a high risk of intentional contamination, as determined by the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, under subsection (a), that could cause serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals and shall include those foods—(1) for which the Secretary has identified clear vulnerabilities (including short shelf-life or susceptibility to intentional contamination at critical control points); and

(2) in bulk or batch form, prior to being packaged for the final consumer.


(d) ExceptionThis section shall not apply to farms, except for those that produce milk.


(e) DefinitionFor purposes of this section, the term “farm” has the meaning given that term in section 1.227 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation).


(June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 420, as added Pub. L. 111–353, title I, § 106(a), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3905.)

ConstructionNothing in this section to be construed to apply to certain alcohol-related facilities, to alter jurisdiction and authorities established under certain other Acts, or in a manner inconsistent with international agreements to which the United States is a party, see sections 2206, 2251, and 2252 of this title.

Guidance DocumentsPub. L. 111–353, title I, § 106(b), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3906, provided that:
“(1) In general.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Jan. 4, 2011], the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Agriculture, shall issue guidance documents related to protection against the intentional adulteration of food, including mitigation strategies or measures to guard against such adulteration as required under section 420 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C. 450i], as added by subsection (a).

“(2) Content.—The guidance documents issued under paragraph (1) shall—“(A) include a model assessment for a person to use under subsection (b)(1) of section 420 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by subsection (a);

“(B) include examples of mitigation strategies or measures described in subsection (b)(2) of such section; and

“(C) specify situations in which the examples of mitigation strategies or measures described in subsection (b)(2) of such section are appropriate.


“(3) Limited distribution.—In the interest of national security, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may determine the time, manner, and form in which the guidance documents issued under paragraph (1) are made public, including by releasing such documents to targeted audiences.”




Periodic ReviewPub. L. 111–353, title I, § 106(c), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3906, provided that: “The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall periodically review and, as appropriate, update the regulations under section 420(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act [21 U.S.C. 450i(b)], as added by subsection (a), and the guidance documents under subsection (b) [section 106(b) of Pub. L. 111–353, set out above].”



