§ 6561b. Applications(a) In generalTo receive—(1) a grant under this subpart, a State educational agency or local educational agency shall submit an application and plan to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require; and

(2) a subgrant under this subpart, a local educational agency shall submit an application and plan to the State educational agency at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the State educational agency may reasonably require.


(b) Contents(1) State educational agency and local educational agencyEach application and plan submitted under subsection (a) of this section shall—(A) include an outline—(i) of the State educational agency’s or local educational agency’s strategy for reducing the State educational agency or local educational agency’s annual school dropout rate;

(ii) for targeting secondary schools, and the middle schools that feed students into those secondary schools, that have the highest annual school dropout rates; and

(iii) for assessing the effectiveness of the efforts described in the plan;


(B) contain an identification of the schools in the State or operated by the local educational agency that have annual school dropout rates that are greater than the average annual school dropout rate for the State;

(C) describe the instructional strategies to be implemented, how the strategies will serve all students, and the effectiveness of the strategies;

(D) describe a budget and timeline for implementing the strategies;

(E) contain evidence of coordination with existing resources;

(F) provide an assurance that funds provided under this subpart will supplement, and not supplant, other State and local funds available for school dropout prevention and reentry programs; and

(G) describe how the activities to be assisted conform with research knowledge about school dropout prevention and reentry.


(2) Local educational agencyEach application and plan submitted under subsection (a) of this section by a local educational agency shall contain, in addition to the requirements of paragraph (1)—(A) an assurance that the local educational agency is committed to providing ongoing operational support for such schools to address the problem of school dropouts for a period of 5 years; and

(B) an assurance that the local educational agency will support the plan, including—(i) provision of release time for teacher training;

(ii) efforts to coordinate activities for secondary schools and the middle schools that feed students into those secondary schools; and

(iii) encouraging other schools served by the local educational agency to participate in the plan.




(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1823, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1614.)
