§ 6967. Uses of funds(a) Use of fundsFunds awarded under this subpart shall be used to pay for enhanced instructional opportunities for immigrant children and youth, which may include—(1) family literacy, parent outreach, and training activities designed to assist parents to become active participants in the education of their children;

(2) support of personnel, including teacher aides who have been specifically trained, or are being trained, to provide services to immigrant children and youth;

(3) tutorials, mentoring, and academic or career counseling for immigrant children and youth;

(4) identification and acquisition of curricular materials, educational software, and technologies;

(5) the provision of basic instruction services that are directly attributable to the presence in the school district of immigrant children and youth, including payment of costs of providing additional classroom supplies, costs of transportation, or such other costs as are directly attributable to such additional basic instruction services; and

(6) such other activities, related to the purpose of this subpart, as the Secretary may authorize.


(b) ConsortiaA local educational agency that receives a grant under this subpart may collaborate or form a consortium with one or more local educational agencies, institutions of higher education, and nonprofit organizations to carry out a program described in an application approved under this subpart.


(c) SubgrantsA local educational agency that receives a grant under this subpart may, with the approval of the Secretary, make a subgrant to, or enter into a contract with, an institution of higher education, a nonprofit organization, or a consortium of such institutions or organizations to carry out a program described in an application approved under this subpart, including a program to serve out-of-school youth.


(d) ConstructionNothing in this subpart shall be construed to prohibit a local educational agency from serving immigrant children and youth simultaneously with children and youth with similar educational needs, in the same educational settings where appropriate.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title III, § 3247, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title III, § 301, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1727.)
