§ 286k. Further promotion of international economic relations(a) Congressional declaration of policyIn the realization that additional measures of international economic cooperation are necessary to facilitate the expansion and balanced growth of international trade and render most effective the operations of the Fund and the Bank, it is declared to be the policy of the United States to seek to bring about further agreement and cooperation among nations and international bodies, as soon as possible, on ways and means which will best reduce obstacles to and restrictions upon international trade, eliminate unfair trade practices, promote mutually advantageous commercial relations, and otherwise facilitate the expansion and balanced growth of international trade and promote the stability of international economic relations. In considering the policies of the United States in foreign lending and the policies of the Fund and the Bank, particularly in conducting exchange transactions, the Council and the United States representatives on the Fund and the Bank shall give careful consideration to the progress which has been made in achieving such agreement and cooperation.


(b) Transmittal of information to Congressional committeesThe President shall, upon the request of any committee of the Congress with legislative or oversight jurisdiction over monetary policy or the International Monetary Fund, provide to such committee any appropriate information relevant to that committee’s jurisdiction which is furnished to any department or agency of the United States by the International Monetary Fund. The President shall comply with this provision consistent with United States membership obligations in the International Monetary Fund and subject to such limitations as are appropriate to the sensitive nature of the information.


(July 31, 1945, ch. 339, § 14, 59 Stat. 517; Pub. L. 95–147, § 4(a)(2), Oct. 28, 1977, 91 Stat. 1228.)

Amendments1977—Pub. L. 95–147 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).


