§ 80q–5. Museum facilities(a) National Museum mall facilityThe Board of Regents shall plan, design, and construct a facility on the area bounded by Third Street, Maryland Avenue, Independence Avenue, Fourth Street, and Jefferson Drive, Southwest, in the District of Columbia to house the portion of the National Museum to be located in the District of Columbia. The Board of Regents shall pay not more than ⅔ of the total cost of planning, designing, and constructing the facility from funds appropriated to the Board of Regents. The remainder of the costs shall be paid from non-Federal sources.


(b) National Museum Heye Center facility(1) Lease of space from GSA(A) TermsNotwithstanding section 586(a) and (b) of title 40, the Administrator of General Services may lease, at a nominal charge, to the Smithsonian Institution space in the Old United States Custom House at One Bowling Green, New York, New York, to house the portion of the National Museum to be located in the city of New York. The lease shall be subject to such terms as may be mutually agreed upon by the Administrator and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. The term of the lease shall not be less than 99 years.


(B) Reimbursement of Federal buildings fundThe Administrator of General Services may reimburse the fund established by section 592 of title 40 for the difference between the amount charged to the Smithsonian Institution for leasing space under this paragraph and the commercial charge under section 586(a) and (b) of title 40 which, but for this paragraph, would apply to the leasing of such space. There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator such sums as may be necessary to carry out this subparagraph for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1990.



(2) Construction(A) Museum facilityThe Board of Regents shall plan, design, and construct a significant facility for the National Museum in the space leased under paragraph (1).


(B) Auditorium and loading dock facilityThe Administrator of General Services shall plan, design, and construct an auditorium and loading dock in the Old United States Custom House at One Bowling Green, New York, New York, for the shared use of all the occupants of the building, including the National Museum.


(C) Square footageThe facilities to be constructed under this paragraph shall have, in the aggregate, a total square footage of approximately 82,500 square feet.



(3) Repairs and alterationsAfter construction of the facility under paragraph (2)(A), repairs and alterations of the facility shall be the responsibility of the Board of Regents.


(4) Reimbursement of GSAThe Board of Regents shall reimburse the Administrator for the Smithsonian Institution’s pro rata share of the cost of utilities, maintenance, cleaning, and other services incurred with respect to the space leased under paragraph (1) and the full cost of any repairs or alterations made by the General Services Administration at the request of the Smithsonian Institution with respect to the space.


(5) Cost sharing(A) General rulesThe Board of Regents shall pay ⅓ of the costs of planning, designing, and constructing the facility under paragraph (2)(A) from funds appropriated to the Board of Regents. The remainder of the costs shall be paid from non-Federal sources.


(B) Responsibilities of New York City and StateOf the costs which are required to be paid from non-Federal sources under this paragraph, the city of New York, New York, and the State of New York have each agreed to pay $8,000,000 or an amount equal to ⅓ of the costs of planning, designing, and constructing the facility under paragraph (2)(A), whichever is less. Such payments shall be made to the Board of Regents in accordance with a payment schedule to be agreed upon by the city and State and the Board of Regents.


(C) Limitation on obligations of Federal fundsFederal funds may not be obligated for actual construction of a facility under paragraph (2)(A) in a fiscal year until non-Federal sources have paid to the Board of Regents the non-Federal share of such costs which the Board of Regents estimates will be incurred in such year.



(6) DesignationThe facility to be constructed under paragraph (2)(A) shall be known and designated as the “George Gustav Heye Center of the National Museum of the American Indian”.



(c) Museum Support Center facilityThe Board of Regents shall plan, design, and construct a facility for the conservation and storage of the collections of the National Museum at the Museum Support Center of the Smithsonian Institution.


(d) Minimum square footageThe facilities to be constructed under this section shall have, in the aggregate, a total square footage of at least 400,000 square feet.


(e) Authority to contract with GSAThe Board of Regents and the Administrator of General Services may enter into such agreements as may be necessary for planning, designing, and constructing facilities under this section (other than subsection (b)(2)(B)). Under such agreements, the Board of Regents shall transfer to the Administrator, from funds available for planning, designing, and constructing such facilities, such amounts as may be necessary for expenses of the General Services Administration with respect to planning, designing, and constructing such facilities.


(f) Limitation on obligation of Federal fundsNotwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, funds appropriated for carrying out this section may not be obligated for actual construction of any facility under this section until the 60th day after the date on which the Board of Regents transmits to Congress a written analysis of the total estimated cost of the construction and a cost-sharing plan projecting the amount for Federal appropriations and for non-Federal contributions for the construction on a fiscal year basis.


(Pub. L. 101–185, § 7, Nov. 28, 1989, 103 Stat. 1339.)

Codification
“Section 586(a) and (b) of title 40” substituted in subsec. (b)(1)(A) for “section 210(j) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(j))”, “section 592 of title 40” substituted in subsec. (b)(1)(B) for “section 210(f) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 490(f))”, and “section 586(a) and (b) of title 40” substituted in subsec. (b)(1)(B) for “section 210(j) of such Act” on authority of Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c), Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1303, the first section of which enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works.

National Native American Veterans’ MemorialPub. L. 103–384, Oct. 22, 1994, 108 Stat. 4067, as amended by Pub. L. 113–70, § 2, Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 1208, provided that:
“SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.“This Act may be cited as the ‘Native American Veterans’ Memorial Establishment Act of 1994’.

