§ 6571. Federal regulations(a) In generalThe Secretary may issue such regulations as are necessary to reasonably ensure that there is compliance with this subchapter.


(b) Negotiated rulemaking process(1) In generalBefore publishing in the Federal Register proposed regulations to carry out this subchapter, the Secretary shall obtain the advice and recommendations of representatives of Federal, State, and local administrators, parents, teachers, paraprofessionals, and members of local school boards and other organizations involved with the implementation and operation of programs under this subchapter.


(2) Meetings and electronic exchangeSuch advice and recommendations may be obtained through such mechanisms as regional meetings and electronic exchanges of information.


(3) Proposed regulationsAfter obtaining such advice and recommendations, and before publishing proposed regulations, the Secretary shall—(A) establish a negotiated rulemaking process on, at a minimum, standards and assessments;

(B) select individuals to participate in such process from among individuals or groups that provided advice and recommendations, including representation from all geographic regions of the United States, in such numbers as will provide an equitable balance between representatives of parents and students and representatives of educators and education officials; and

(C) prepare a draft of proposed policy options that shall be provided to the individuals selected by the Secretary under subparagraph (B) not less than 15 days before the first meeting under such process.


(4) ProcessSuch process—(A) shall be conducted in a timely manner to ensure that final regulations are issued by the Secretary not later than 1 year after January 8, 2002; and

(B) shall not be subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act, but shall otherwise follow the provisions of the Negotiated Rulemaking Act of 1990 (5 U.S.C. 561 et seq.).


(5) Emergency situationIn an emergency situation in which regulations to carry out this subchapter must be issued within a very limited time to assist State educational agencies and local educational agencies with the operation of a program under this subchapter, the Secretary may issue proposed regulations without following such process but shall, immediately thereafter and before issuing final regulations, conduct regional meetings to review such proposed regulations.



(c) LimitationRegulations to carry out this part may not require local programs to follow a particular instructional model, such as the provision of services outside the regular classroom or school program.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1901, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1617.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(4)(B), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
The Negotiated Rulemaking Act of 1990, referred to in subsec. (b)(4)(B), is Pub. L. 101–648, Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 4969, as amended, which enacted subchapter III (§ 561 et seq.) of chapter 5 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and provisions set out as notes under section 561 of Title 5. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1990 Amendment note set out under section 561 of Title 5 and Tables.


