§ 7255d. Other grant assistance(a) Special statewide network(1) In generalThe Secretary, in conjunction with the Office of Educational Technology, may provide assistance to a statewide telecommunications network if such network—(A) provides 2-way full-motion interactive video and audio communications;

(B) links together public colleges and universities and secondary schools throughout the State; and

(C) meets any other requirements determined appropriate by the Secretary.


(2) Matching contributionA statewide telecommunications network assisted under paragraph (1) shall contribute, either directly or through private contributions, non-Federal funds equal to not less than 50 percent of the cost of such network.



(b) Special local network(1) In generalThe Secretary is authorized to provide assistance, on a competitive basis, to a local educational agency, or a consortium of such agencies, to enable such agency or consortium to establish a high-technology demonstration program.


(2) Program requirementsA high-technology demonstration program assisted under paragraph (1) shall—(A) include 2-way full-motion interactive video, audio, and text communications;

(B) link together elementary schools and secondary schools, colleges, and universities;

(C) provide parent participation and family programs;

(D) include a staff development program; and

(E) have a significant contribution and participation from business and industry.


(3) Matching requirementA local educational agency or consortium receiving a grant under paragraph (1) shall provide, either directly or through private contributions, non-Federal matching funds equal to not less than 50 percent of the amount of the grant.



(c) Telecommunications programs for continuing education(1) AuthorityThe Secretary is authorized to award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to develop and operate one or more programs that provide online access to educational resources in support of continuing education and curriculum requirements relevant to achieving a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent. The program authorized by this subsection shall be designed to advance adult literacy, secondary school completion, and the acquisition of specified competency by the end of the 12th grade.


(2) ApplicationsEach eligible entity desiring a grant under this subsection shall submit an application to the Secretary. The application shall include each of the following:(A) A demonstration that the applicant will use publicly funded or free public telecommunications infrastructure to deliver video, voice, and data in an integrated service to support and assist in the acquisition of a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent.

(B) An assurance that the content of the materials to be delivered is consistent with the accreditation requirements of the State for which such materials are used.

(C) To the extent feasible, materials developed in the Federal departments and agencies and under appropriate federally funded programs.

(D) An assurance that the applicant has the technological and substantive experience to carry out the program.

(E) Such additional assurances as the Secretary may reasonably require.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5475, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1834.)
