§ 277d–19. Compensation of owners and tenants to prevent economic injury; regulations
The United States Commissioner, under regulations approved by the Secretary of State, and upon application of the owners and tenants of lands to be acquired by the United States to fulfill and accomplish the purposes of said convention, and to the extent administratively determined by the Commissioner to be fair and reasonable, is authorized to—
a. Reimburse the owners and tenants for expenses and other losses and damages incurred by them in the process and as a direct result of such moving of themselves, their families, and their possessions as is occasioned by said acquisition: Provided, That the total of such reimbursement to the owners and tenants of any parcel of land shall in no event exceed 25 per centum of its fair value, as determined by the Commissioner. No payment under this subsection shall be made unless application therefor is supported by an itemized and certified statement of the expenses, losses, and damages incurred.
b. Compensate the said owners and tenants for identifiable, reasonable, and satisfactorily proved costs and losses to owners and tenants over and above those reimbursed under the foregoing subsection in the categories hereinafter provided, and for which purpose there shall be established by the Commissioner a board of examiners, consisting of such personnel employed and compensation fixed as he deems advisable, without regard to the provisions of the civil service laws and chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5. Said board may hold hearings and shall examine submitted evidence and make determinations, subject to the Commissioner’s approval, regarding all claims in said categories as follows:
(1) For properties—
(a) For nonconforming abodes and minimum forms of shelter for which there are no comparable properties on the market in the city of El Paso and concerning which fair market value would be inadequate to find minimum housing of equal utility, compensation to the owner up to an amount which when added to the market value allowed for his property, including land values, would enable purchase of minimum habitable housing of similar utility in another residential section of said city.
(b) For commercial properties for which there are no comparable properties on the market in or near El Paso, Texas, compensation to the owner up to an amount which, when added to the total fair market value, including the land value, would compensate the owner for the “value in use” of the real estate to him. Such “value in use” is to be determined on the basis of replacement cost less deterioration and obsolescence in existing real estate and taking into consideration factors bearing upon income attributable to the real estate.
(2) For loss in business:
(a) Loss of profits directly resulting from relocation, limited to the period between termination of business in the old location and commencement of business in the new, such period not to exceed thirty days.
(b) Loss to owner resulting from inability to rent to others housing or commercial space that can be reasonably related to uncertainties arising out of the pending acquisition of the owner’s property by the United States, such losses limited to those incurred after July 18, 1963, and prior to the making by the United States of a firm offer to purchase.
(3) For penalty costs to property owners for prepayment of mortgages incident to acquisition of the properties by the United States.
(Pub. L. 88–300, § 3, Apr. 29, 1964, 78 Stat. 184.)

Codification
In par. b., “chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5” substituted for “the Classification Act of 1949, as amended” on authority of Pub. L. 89–554, § 7(b), Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 631, the first section of which enacted Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


