§ 1011h. Binge drinking on college campuses(a) Short titleThis section may be cited as the “Collegiate Initiative To Reduce Binge Drinking and Illegal Alcohol Consumption”.


(b) Sense of CongressIt is the sense of Congress that, in an effort to change the culture of alcohol consumption on college campuses, all institutions of higher education should carry out the following:(1) The president of the institution should appoint a task force consisting of school administrators, faculty, students, Greek system representatives, and others to conduct a full examination of student and academic life at the institution. The task force should make recommendations for a broad range of policy and program changes that would serve to reduce alcohol and other drug-related problems. The institution should provide resources to assist the task force in promoting the campus policies and proposed environmental changes that have been identified.

(2) The institution should provide maximum opportunities for students to live in an alcohol-free environment and to engage in stimulating, alcohol-free recreational and leisure activities.

(3) The institution should enforce a “zero tolerance” policy on the illegal consumption of alcohol by students at the institution.

(4) The institution should vigorously enforce the institution’s code of disciplinary sanctions for those who violate campus alcohol policies. Students with alcohol or other drug-related problems should be referred for assistance, including on-campus counseling programs if appropriate.

(5) The institution should adopt a policy to discourage alcoholic beverage-related sponsorship of on-campus activities. It should adopt policies limiting the advertisement and promotion of alcoholic beverages on campus.

(6) The institution should work with the local community, including local businesses, in a “Town/Gown” alliance to encourage responsible policies toward alcohol consumption and to address illegal alcohol use by students.


(Pub. L. 89–329, title I, § 119, as added Pub. L. 105–244, title I, § 101(a), Oct. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1596.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 1011h, Pub. L. 89–329, title I, § 129, as added Pub. L. 102–325, title I, § 101, July 23, 1992, 106 Stat. 465, authorized appropriations to carry out the articulation agreements grant program, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 105–244.


