§ 2887. Job Corps centers(a) Operators and service providers(1) Eligible entities(A) OperatorsThe Secretary shall enter into an agreement with a Federal, State, or local agency, an area vocational education school or residential vocational school, or a private organization, for the operation of each Job Corps center.


(B) ProvidersThe Secretary may enter into an agreement with a local entity to provide activities described in this subchapter to the Job Corps center.



(2) Selection process(A) Competitive basisExcept as provided in subsections (a) to (c) of section 3304 of title 41, the Secretary shall select on a competitive basis an entity to operate a Job Corps center and entities to provide activities described in this subchapter to the Job Corps center. In developing a solicitation for an operator or service provider, the Secretary shall consult with the Governor of the State in which the center is located, the industry council for the Job Corps center (if established), and the applicable local board regarding the contents of such solicitation, including elements that will promote the consistency of the activities carried out through the center with the objectives set forth in the State plan or in a local plan.


(B) Recommendations and considerations(i) OperatorsIn selecting an entity to operate a Job Corps center, the Secretary shall consider—(I) the ability of the entity to coordinate the activities carried out through the Job Corps center with activities carried out under the appropriate State plan and local plans;

(II) the degree to which the vocational training that the entity proposes for the center reflects local employment opportunities in the local areas in which enrollees at the center intend to seek employment;

(III) the degree to which the entity is familiar with the surrounding communities, applicable one-stop centers, and the State and region in which the center is located; and

(IV) the past performance of the entity, if any, relating to operating or providing activities described in this subchapter to a Job Corps center.


(ii) ProvidersIn selecting a service provider for a Job Corps center, the Secretary shall consider the factors described in subclauses (I) through (IV) of clause (i), as appropriate.





(b) Character and activitiesJob Corps centers may be residential or nonresidential in character, and shall be designed and operated so as to provide enrollees, in a well-supervised setting, with access to activities described in this subchapter. In any year, no more than 20 percent of the individuals enrolled in the Job Corps may be nonresidential participants in the Job Corps.


(c) Civilian Conservation Centers(1) In generalThe Job Corps centers may include Civilian Conservation Centers operated under agreements with the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of the Interior, located primarily in rural areas, which shall provide, in addition to other vocational training and assistance, programs of work experience to conserve, develop, or manage public natural resources or public recreational areas or to develop community projects in the public interest.


(2) Selection processThe Secretary may select an entity to operate a Civilian Conservation Center on a competitive basis, as provided in subsection (a) of this section, if the center fails to meet such national performance standards as the Secretary shall establish.



(d) Indian tribes(1) General authorityThe Secretary may enter into agreements with Indian tribes to operate Job Corps centers for Indians.


(2) DefinitionsIn this subsection, the terms “Indian” and “Indian tribe”, have the meanings given such terms in subsections (d) and (e), respectively, of section 450b of title 25.



(Pub. L. 105–220, title I, § 147, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1010.)

Repeal of SectionPub. L. 113–128, title V, §§ 506, 511(a), July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1703, 1705, provided that, effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 [probably July 1, 2015], this section is repealed.

Codification
In subsec. (a)(2)(A), “subsections (a) to (c) of section 3304 of title 41” substituted for “subsections (c) and (d) of section 303 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 253)” on authority of Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3854, which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.

Prior ProvisionsProvisions similar to this section were contained in section 1697 of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 105–220.

Effective Date of RepealRepeal effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 [probably July 1, 2015], see section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128, set out as an Effective Date note under section 3101 of this title.


