§ 8424. Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund(a) For fiscal year 2010(1) In generalFor fiscal year 2010, the Department of State’s Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund established under the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111–32), hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Fund”, shall consist of the following:(A) Amounts appropriated to carry out this subsection (which may not include any amounts appropriated to carry out subchapter I of this chapter).

(B) Amounts otherwise available to the Secretary of State to carry out this subsection.


(2) Purposes of FundAmounts in the Fund made available to carry out this subsection for any fiscal year are authorized to be used by the Secretary of State, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Defense, to build and maintain the counterinsurgency capability of Pakistan under the same terms and conditions (except as otherwise provided in this subsection) that are applicable to amounts made available under the Fund for fiscal year 2009.


(3) Transfer authority(A) In generalThe Secretary of State is authorized to transfer amounts in the Fund made available to carry out this subsection for any fiscal year to the Department of Defense’s Pakistan Counterinsurgency Fund established under the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111–32) and such amounts may be transferred back to the Fund if the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, determines that such amounts are not needed for the purposes for which initially transferred.


(B) Treatment of transferred fundsSubject to subsections (d) and (e) of section 8423 of this title, transfers from the Fund under the authority of subparagraph (A) shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as amounts in the Department of Defense’s Pakistan Counterinsurgency Fund.


(C) Relation to other authoritiesThe authority to provide assistance under this subsection is in addition to any other authority to provide assistance to foreign countries.


(D) NotificationThe Secretary of State shall, not less than 15 days prior to making transfers from the Fund under subparagraph (A), notify the appropriate congressional committees in writing of the details of any such transfer.




(b) Submission of notificationsAny notification required by this section may be submitted in classified or unclassified form, as necessary.


(c) Appropriate congressional committees definedIn this section, the term “appropriate congressional committees” means—(1) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and

(2) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Armed Services, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.


(Pub. L. 111–73, title II, § 204, Oct. 15, 2009, 123 Stat. 2072.)


References in TextThe Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), (3)(A), is Pub. L. 111–32, June 24, 2009, 123 Stat. 1859. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.


