§ 290q. Organization of American States revitalization and reform strategy(a) Strategy(1) In generalNot later than 180 days after October 2, 2013, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a multiyear strategy that—(A) identifies a path toward the adoption of necessary reforms that prioritize and reinforce the OAS’s core competencies described in section 4(8);

(B) outlines an approach to secure from the OAS effective adoption of—(i) a results-based budgeting process in order to strategically prioritize, and where appropriate, reduce current and future mandates; and

(ii) transparent hiring, firing, and promotion practices;


(C) reflects the inputs and coordination from other Executive Branch agencies, as appropriate; and

(D) identifies a path toward the adoption of necessary reforms that would—(i) lead to an assessed fee structure in which no member state would pay more than 50 percent of the OAS’s assessed yearly fees; and

(ii) seek to minimize the negative financial impact on the OAS and its operations.



(2) Policy priorities and coordinationThe Secretary of State shall—(A) carry out diplomatic engagement to build support for reforms and budgetary burden sharing among OAS member states and observers; and

(B) promote donor coordination among OAS member states.



(b) BriefingsThe Secretary of State shall offer to the committees referred to in subsection (a)(1) a quarterly briefing that—(1) reviews assessed and voluntary contributions;

(2) analyzes the progress made by the OAS to adopt and effectively implement a results-based budgeting process in order to strategically prioritize, and where appropriate, reduce current and future mandates;

(3) analyzes the progress made by the OAS to adopt and effectively implement transparent and merit-based human resource standards and practices and transparent hiring, firing, and promotion standards and processes, including with respect to factors such as gender and national origin;

(4) analyzes the progress made by the OAS to adopt and effectively implement a practice of soliciting member quotas to be paid on a schedule that will improve the consistency of its operating budget; and

(5) analyzes the progress made by the OAS to review, streamline, and prioritize mandates to focus on core missions and make efficient and effective use of available funding.


(Pub. L. 113–41, § 5, Oct. 2, 2013, 127 Stat. 550.)


References in TextSection 4(8), referred to in subsec. (a)(1)(A), is section 4(8) of Pub. L. 113–41, Oct. 2, 2013, 127 Stat. 549, which is not classified to the Code.

Short TitlePub. L. 113–41, § 1, Oct. 2, 2013, 127 Stat. 548, provided that: “This Act [enacting this section and provisions set out as notes under this section] may be cited as the ‘Organization of American States Revitalization and Reform Act of 2013’.”


FindingsPub. L. 113–41, § 2, Oct. 2, 2013, 127 Stat. 548, provided that: 
“Congress makes the following findings:
“(1) The Charter of the Organization of American States recognizes that—“(A) representative democracy is indispensable for the stability, peace, and development of the Western Hemisphere; and

“(B) a purpose of the Organization of American States is to promote and consolidate representative democracy, with due respect for the principle of nonintervention.


“(2) The United States supports the purposes and principles enshrined in—“(A) the Charter of the Organization of American States;

“(B) the Inter-American Democratic Charter; and

“(C) the American Declaration on the Rights and Duties of Man.


“(3) The United States supports the Organization of American States in its efforts with all member states to meet our commitments under the instruments set forth in paragraph (2).

“(4) Congress supports the Organization of American States as it operates in a manner consistent with the Inter-American Democratic Charter.”




Statement of PolicyPub. L. 113–41, § 3, Oct. 2, 2013, 127 Stat. 548, provided that: 
“It is the policy of the United States—
“(1) to promote democracy and the rule of law throughout the Western Hemisphere;

“(2) to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Western Hemisphere; and

“(3) to support the practices, purposes, and principles expressed in the Charter of the Organization of American States, the American Declaration on the Rights and Duties of Man, the Inter-American Democratic Charter, and other fundamental instruments of democracy.”





