“SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.“For the purposes of this Act:“(1) The term ‘Band’ means the Aroostook Band of Micmacs, the sole successor to the Micmac Nation as constituted in aboriginal times in what is now the State of Maine, and all its predecessors and successors in interest. The Aroostook Band of Micmacs is represented, as of the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 26, 1991], as to lands within the United States, by the Aroostook Micmac Council.

“(2) The term ‘Band Tax Fund’ means the fund established under section 4(b) of this Act.

“(3) The term ‘Band Trust Land’ means land or natural resources acquired by the Secretary of the Interior and held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Band.

“(4) The term ‘land or natural resources’ means any real property or natural resources, or any interest in or right involving any real property or natural resources, including (but not limited to) minerals and mineral rights, timber and timber rights, water and water rights, and hunting and fishing rights.

“(5) The term ‘Land Acquisition Fund’ means the fund established under section 4(a) of this Act.

“(6) The term ‘laws of the State’ means the constitution, and all statutes, regulations, and common laws of the State of Maine and its political subdivisions and all subsequent amendments thereto or judicial interpretations thereof.

“(7) The term ‘Maine Implementing Act’ means the Act entitled ‘Act to Implement the Maine Indian Claims Settlement’ that was enacted by the State of Maine in chapter 732 of the Maine Public Laws of 1979, as amended by chapter 675 of the Maine Public Laws of 1981 and chapter 672 of the Maine Public Laws of 1985, and all subsequent amendments thereto.

“(8) The term ‘Micmac Settlement Act’ means the Act entitled ‘Act to implement the Aroostook Band of Micmacs Settlement Act’ that was enacted by the State of Maine in chapter 148 of the Maine Public Laws of 1989, and all subsequent amendments thereto.

“(9) The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of the Interior.

