§ 1300d–2. Apportionment of funds; deposit in United States Treasury; per capita shares; advances, deposits, expenditures, investments, or reinvestments for approved purposes
After deducting the amounts authorized in section 1300d of this title, the funds derived from the judgment awarded the Indian Claims Commission dockets numbered 360, 361, 362, 363, and one-half of the amount awarded in docket numbered 359, plus accrued interest, shall be apportioned on the basis of the rolls prepared pursuant to section 1300d–1 of this title. An amount equivalent to the proportionate shares of those persons who are members of the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe of South Dakota, the Santee Sioux Tribe of Nebraska, the Lower Sioux Indian Community, the Prairie Island Indian Community, and the Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community shall be placed on deposit in the United States Treasury to the credit of the respective groups. Eighty per centum of such funds on deposit to the credit of the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe of South Dakota and the Santee Sioux Tribe of Nebraska shall be distributed per capita to such tribal members, and the remainder may be advanced, deposited, expended, invested, or reinvested for any purpose designated by the respective tribal governing bodies and approved by the Secretary of the Interior. One hundred per centum of such funds on deposit to the credit of the Lower Sioux Indian Community, the Prairie Island Indian Community, and the Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community shall be distributed per capita of such tribal members: Provided, That none of the funds may be paid per capita to any person whose name does not appear on the rolls prepared pursuant to section 1300d–1 of this title. The shares of enrollees who are not members of such groups shall be paid per capita.
(Pub. L. 92–555, title I, § 102, Oct. 25, 1972, 86 Stat. 1168.)


References in TextThe Indian Claims Commission, referred to in text, terminated Sept. 30, 1978. See Codification note set out under former section 70 et seq. of this title.

Codification
Reference in proviso to “section 1300d–1 of this title” was substituted for “section 2 of this Act” as the probable intent of Congress.


