§ 640d–2. Implementation of agreements(a) Full agreementIf, within one hundred and eighty days after the first session scheduled by the Mediator under section 640d–1(c) of this title, full agreement is reached, such agreement shall be put in such form as the Mediator determines best expresses the intent of the tribes and shall then be submitted to the Secretary and the Attorney General of the United States for their comments as they relate to the interest of the United States in the proceedings. These comments are to be submitted to the Mediator and the negotiating teams within thirty days. The negotiating teams and the Mediator shall then consider the comments and, if agreement can still be reached on terms acceptable to the negotiating teams and the Mediator within sixty days of receipt by him of the comments, the agreement shall be put in final written form and shall be signed by the members of the negotiating teams and the Mediator. The Mediator shall then cause the agreement to be entered into the records of the supplemental proceedings in the Healing case. The provisions of the agreement shall be reviewed by the District Court, modified where necessary, and put into effect immediately thereafter.


(b) Partial agreementIf, within the one hundred and eighty day period referred to in subsection (a) of this section, a partial agreement has been reached between the tribes and they wish such partial agreement to go into effect, they shall follow the procedure set forth in subsection (a) of this section. The partial agreement shall then be considered by the Mediator in preparing his report, and the District Court in making a final adjudication, pursuant to section 640d–3 of this title.


(c) Consistency with existing lawFor the purpose of this section, the negotiating teams may make any provision in the agreement or partial agreement not inconsistent with existing law. No such agreement or any provision in it shall result in a taking by the United States of private property compensable under the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.


(Pub. L. 93–531, § 3, Dec. 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 1713.)
