“Sec. 2. (a) The Administrator, at the earliest practicable date, shall relocate all operations of the United States International Trade Commission (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the ‘Commission’) to a building in downtown Washington, District of Columbia. The Administrator’s determination as to such relocation shall be based on studies and investigations in which the Chairman of the Commission shall have full opportunity to consult and cooperate with the Administrator. Such consultation shall include opportunity for the Chairman to participate jointly with the Administrator in surveys of available buildings and to submit views and recommendations to the Administrator with respect to space suitable for the Commission’s operations. The Administrator shall advise the Chairman in writing of the building to which the operations of the Commission are to be relocated. The Administrator’s determination of such relocation shall not take effect for a period of at least sixty days after the date such determination is made and the Chairman is advised of the building to which the operations of the Commission are to be relocated. In the event the Chairman disagrees with the Administrator’s determination of such relocation, the Chairman, within thirty days after the Chairman is advised of the building to which the operations of the Commission are to be relocated, may make a written request for review of such determination to the Administrator, and the Administrator shall conduct a formal review of such determination.

“(b) The Administrator and the Chairman shall each report separately in writing to the Committees on Environment and Public Works, Finance, Rules and Administration, and Governmental Affairs [now Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs] of the Senate and to the Committees on Public Works and Transportation, Ways and Means, House Administration, and Government Operations of the House of Representatives not later than sixty days after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 19, 1984] and every thirty days thereafter on the status of the relocation required by this section.

“(c) During the period in which the Commission and the United States Postal Service continue to occupy the General Post Office Building referred to in the first section of this Act, the Administrator shall maintain such building in order to prevent its deterioration and to assure that conditions therein are safe and the building is presentable and suitable to the normal operations of the Commission and such Service.

“(d) Upon accomplishment of the relocation required by subsection (a) of this section, the Administrator shall declare the property referred to in the first section of this Act to be excess property as defined in section 3 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 472) [now 40 U.S.C. 102].

