§ 1811. Certificate of registration required(a) Persons engaged in any farm labor contracting activityNo person shall engage in any farm labor contracting activity, unless such person has a certificate of registration from the Secretary specifying which farm labor contracting activities such person is authorized to perform.


(b) Hire, employ, or use of any individual to perform farm labor contracting activities by farm labor contractor; liability of farm labor contractor for violationsA farm labor contractor shall not hire, employ, or use any individual to perform farm labor contracting activities unless such individual has a certificate of registration, or a certificate of registration as an employee of the farm labor contractor employer, which authorizes the activity for which such individual is hired, employed, or used. The farm labor contractor shall be held responsible for violations of this chapter or any regulation under this chapter by any employee regardless of whether the employee possesses a certificate of registration based on the contractor’s certificate of registration.


(c) Possession and exhibition of certificateEach registered farm labor contractor and registered farm labor contractor employee shall carry at all times while engaging in farm labor contracting activities a certificate of registration and, upon request, shall exhibit that certificate to all persons with whom they intend to deal as a farm labor contractor or farm labor contractor employee.


(d) Refusal or failure to produce certificateThe facilities and the services authorized by the Act of June 6, 1933 (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.), known as the Wagner-Peyser Act, shall be denied to any farm labor contractor upon refusal or failure to produce, when asked, a certificate of registration.


(Pub. L. 97–470, title I, § 101, Jan. 14, 1983, 96 Stat. 2587.)


References in TextThe Wagner-Peyser Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is act June 6, 1933, ch. 49, 48 Stat. 113, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 4B (§ 49 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 49 of this title and Tables.


