§ 290h–5. Management of Foundation(a) Board of directors; membership; designation of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson; appointment considerations; term; vacancies(1) The management of the Foundation shall be vested in a board of directors (hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Board”) composed of seven members appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The President shall designate one member of the Board to serve as Chairperson of the Board and one member to serve as Vice Chairperson of the Board. Five members of the Board shall be appointed from private life. Two members of the Board shall be appointed from among officers and employees of agencies of the United States concerned with African affairs. All members of the Board shall be appointed on the basis of their understanding of and sensitivity to community level development processes. Members of the Board shall be appointed so that no more than four members of the Board are members of any one political party.

(2) Members of the Board shall be appointed for terms of six years, except that of the members first appointed, as designated by the President at the time of their appointment, two shall be appointed for terms of two years and two shall be appointed for terms of four years. A member of the Board appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which that member’s predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of that term. Upon the expiration of his or her term a member shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed and shall have qualified.


(b) Compensation, actual, necessary, and transportation expensesMembers of the Board shall serve without additional compensation, but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses not exceeding $100 per day, and for transportation expenses, while engaged in their duties on behalf of the Foundation.


(c) QuorumA majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum.


(d) President of Foundation; appointment and compensation; employment of experts and consultants(1) The Board of Directors shall appoint a president of the Foundation on such terms as the Board may determine. The president of the Foundation shall receive compensation at a rate not to exceed that provided for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5.

(2) Experts and consultants may be employed by the Board as authorized by section 3109 of title 5.


(e) Advisory council; membership; appointment considerations; consultations with council; compensation, travel, and other expenses(1) The Board shall establish an advisory council to be composed of such number of individuals as may be selected by the Board from among individuals knowledgeable about development activities in Africa. The advisory council may include African recipients of grants, loans, or loan guarantees under this subchapter.

(2) The Board shall, at least once each year, consult the advisory council concerning the objectives and activities of the Foundation.

(3) Members of the advisory council shall receive no compensation for their services but may be allowed travel and other expenses in accordance with section 5703 of title 5, which are incurred by them in the performance of the functions under this subsection.


(Pub. L. 96–533, title V, § 507, Dec. 16, 1980, 94 Stat. 3154; Pub. L. 101–167, title II, Nov. 21, 1989, 103 Stat. 1209.)

Amendments1989—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 101–167 inserted at end “Members of the Board shall be appointed so that no more than four members of the Board are members of any one political party.”

Effective Date of 1989 AmendmentPub. L. 101–167, title II, Nov. 21, 1989, 103 Stat. 1209, provided: “That the amendment to section 507(a)(1) of such Act [22 U.S.C. 290h–5(a)(1)] shall not affect an appointment made to the Board prior to the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 21, 1989]”.



