“SEC. 1605. JOINT COMMITTEE FOR REVIEW OF COUNTERPROLIFERATION PROGRAMS OF THE UNITED STATES.“(a) Establishment.—(1) There is hereby established a Counterproliferation Program Review Committee composed of the following members:“(A) The Secretary of Defense.

“(B) The Secretary of Energy.

“(C) The Director of National Intelligence.

“(D) The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

“(E) The Secretary of State.

“(F) The Secretary of Homeland Security.


“(2) The Secretary of Defense shall chair the committee. The Secretary of Energy shall serve as the Vice Chairman of the committee.

“(3) A member of the committee may designate a representative to perform routinely the duties of the member. A representative shall be in a position of Deputy Assistant Secretary or a position equivalent to or above the level of Deputy Assistant Secretary. A representative of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall be a person in a grade equivalent to that of Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense.

“(4) The Secretary of Defense may delegate to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics the performance of the duties of the Chairman of the committee. The Secretary of Energy may delegate to the Under Secretary of Energy responsible for national security programs of the Department of Energy the performance of the duties of the Vice Chairman of the committee.

“(5) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and Biological Defense Programs shall serve as executive secretary to the committee, except that during any period during which that position is vacant the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Strategy and Threat Reduction shall serve as the executive secretary.


“(b) Purposes of the Committee.—The purposes of the committee are as follows:“(1) To optimize funding for, and ensure the development and deployment of—“(A) highly effective technologies and capabilities for the detection, monitoring, collection, processing, analysis, and dissemination of information in support of United States counterproliferation policy and efforts, including efforts to stem the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and to negate paramilitary and terrorist threats involving weapons of mass destruction; and

“(B) disabling technologies in support of such policy.


“(2) To identify and eliminate undesirable redundancies or uncoordinated efforts in the development and deployment of such technologies and capabilities.

“(3) To establish priorities for programs and funding.

“(4) To encourage and facilitate interagency and interdepartmental funding of programs in order to ensure necessary levels of funding to develop, operate, and field highly-capable systems.

“(5) To ensure that Department of Energy programs are integrated with the operational needs of other departments and agencies of the Government.

“(6) To ensure that Department of Energy national security programs include technology demonstrations and prototype development of equipment.


“(c) Duties.—The committee shall—“(1) identify and review existing and proposed capabilities and technologies for support of United States nonproliferation policy and counterproliferation policy with regard to—“(A) intelligence;

“(B) battlefield surveillance;

“(C) passive defenses;

“(D) active defenses; and

“(E) counterforce capabilities;


“(2) prescribe requirements and priorities for the development and deployment of highly effective capabilities and technologies;

“(3) identify deficiencies in existing capabilities and technologies;

“(4) formulate near-term, mid-term, and long-term programmatic options for meeting requirements established by the committee and eliminating deficiencies identified by the committee; and

“(5) assess each fiscal year the effectiveness of the committee actions during the preceding fiscal year, including, particularly, the status of recommendations made during such preceding fiscal year that were reflected in the budget submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the assessment is made.


“(d) Access to Information.—The committee shall have access to information on all programs, projects, and activities of the Department of Defense, the Department of State, the Department of Energy, the Department of State, the Department of Homeland Security, the intelligence community, and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency that are pertinent to the purposes and duties of the committee.

“(e) Recommendations.—The committee shall submit to the President and the heads of all appropriate departments and agencies of the Government such programmatic recommendations regarding existing, planned, or new programs as the committee considers appropriate to encourage funding for capabilities and technologies at the level necessary to support United States counterproliferation policy.

“(f) Termination of Committee.—The committee shall cease to exist at the end of September 30, 2013.

