§ 3483. Working capital fund(a) Establishment; administrative services includedThe Secretary, with the approval of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, is authorized to establish for the Department a working capital fund, to be available without fiscal year limitation, for expenses necessary for the maintenance and operation of such common administrative services as the Secretary shall find to be desirable in the interests of economy and efficiency, including such services as—(1) a central supply service for stationery and other supplies and equipment for which adequate stocks may be maintained to meet in whole or in part the requirements of the Department and its components;

(2) central messenger, mail, telephone, and other communications services;

(3) office space, central services for document reproduction, and for graphics and visual aids; and

(4) a central library service.


(b) Capital; reimbursement of funds; credit; miscellaneous receipts; transfersThe capital of the fund shall consist of any appropriations made for the purpose of providing working capital and the fair and reasonable value of such stocks of supplies, equipment, and other assets and inventories on order as the Secretary may transfer to the fund, less the related liabilities and unpaid obligations. Such funds shall be reimbursed in advance from available funds of agencies and offices in the Department, or from other sources, for supplies and services at rates that will approximate the expense of operation, including the accrual of annual leave and the depreciation of equipment. The fund shall also be credited with receipts from sale or exchange of property and receipts in payment for loss or damage to property owned by the fund. There shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts any surplus of the fund (all assets, liabilities, and prior losses considered) above the amounts transferred or appropriated to establish and maintain such fund. There shall be transferred to the fund the stocks of supplies, equipment, other assets, liabilities, and unpaid obligations relating to the services which the Secretary determines, with the approval of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, will be performed.


(Pub. L. 96–88, title IV, § 423, Oct. 17, 1979, 93 Stat. 687.)
