§ 6535. Advanced placement incentive program grants(a) Grants authorized(1) In generalFrom amounts made available under section 6533 of this title for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to enable those entities to carry out the authorized activities described in subsection (d) of this section.


(2) Duration and payments(A) DurationThe Secretary shall award a grant under this section for a period of not more than 3 years.


(B) PaymentsThe Secretary shall make grant payments under this section on an annual basis.



(3) Definition of eligible entityIn this section, the term “eligible entity” means a State educational agency, local educational agency, or national nonprofit educational entity with expertise in advanced placement services.



(b) ApplicationEach eligible entity desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may require.


(c) PriorityIn awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to an eligible entity that submits an application under subsection (b) of this section that—(1) demonstrates a pervasive need for access to advanced placement incentive programs;

(2) provides for the involvement of business and community organizations in the activities to be assisted;

(3) assures the availability of matching funds from State, local, or other sources to pay for the cost of activities to be assisted;

(4) demonstrates a focus on developing or expanding advanced placement programs and participation in the core academic areas of English, mathematics, and science;

(5) demonstrates an intent to carry out activities that target—(A) local educational agencies serving schools with a high concentration of low-income students; or

(B) schools with a high concentration of low-income students; and


(6) in the case of a local educational agency, assures that the local educational agency serves schools with a high concentration of low-income students; or

(7) demonstrates an intent to carry out activities to increase the availability of, and participation in, on-line advanced placement courses.


(d) Authorized activities(1) In generalSubject to paragraph (2), an eligible entity shall use grant funds made available under this section to expand access for low-income individuals to advanced placement incentive programs that involve—(A) teacher training;

(B) pre-advanced placement course development;

(C) coordination and articulation between grade levels to prepare students for academic achievement in advanced placement courses;

(D) books and supplies; or

(E) activities to increase the availability of, and participation in, on-line advanced placement courses; or

(F) any other activity directly related to expanding access to and participation in advanced placement incentive programs, particularly for low-income individuals.


(2) State educational agencyIn the case of an eligible entity that is a State educational agency, the entity may use grant funds made available under this section to award subgrants to local educational agencies to enable the local educational agencies to carry out the activities under paragraph (1).



(e) ContractsAn eligible entity awarded a grant to provide online advanced placement courses under this part may enter into a contract with a nonprofit or for profit organization to provide the online advanced placement courses, including contracting for necessary support services.


(f) Data collection and reporting(1) Data collectionEach eligible entity awarded a grant under this section shall, with respect to each advanced placement subject, annually report to the Secretary on—(A) the number of students served by the eligible entity who are taking an advanced placement course in that subject;

(B) the number of advanced placement tests taken by students served by the eligible entity in that subject;

(C) the number of students served by the eligible entity scoring at different levels on advanced placement tests in that subject; and

(D) demographic information regarding individuals served by such agency who taking 11 So in original. advanced placement courses and tests in that subject disaggregated by race, ethnicity, sex, English proficiency status, and socioeconomic status.


(2) ReportThe Secretary shall annually compile the information received from each eligible entity under paragraph (1) and report to the appropriate committees of Congress regarding the information.



(Pub. L. 89–10, title I, § 1705, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title I, § 101, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1608.)
