§ 7704. Policies and procedures relating to children residing on Indian lands(a) In generalA local educational agency that claims children residing on Indian lands for the purpose of receiving funds under section 7703 of this title shall establish policies and procedures to ensure that—(1) such children participate in programs and activities supported by such funds on an equal basis with all other children;

(2) parents of such children and Indian tribes are afforded an opportunity to present their views on such programs and activities, including an opportunity to make recommendations on the needs of those children and how the local educational agency may help such children realize the benefits of such programs and activities;

(3) parents and Indian tribes are consulted and involved in planning and developing such programs and activities;

(4) relevant applications, evaluations, and program plans are disseminated to the parents and Indian tribes; and

(5) parents and Indian tribes are afforded an opportunity to present their views to such agency regarding such agency’s general educational program.


(b) RecordsA local educational agency that claims children residing on Indian lands for the purpose of receiving funds under section 7703 of this title shall maintain records demonstrating such agency’s compliance with the requirements contained in subsection (a) of this section.


(c) WaiverA local educational agency that claims children residing on Indian lands for the purpose of receiving funds under section 7703 of this title shall not be required to comply with the requirements of subsections (a) and (b) of this section for any fiscal year with respect to any Indian tribe from which such agency has received a written statement that the agency need not comply with those subsections because the tribe is satisfied with the provision of educational services by such agency to such children.


(d) Technical assistance and enforcementThe Secretary shall—(1) provide technical assistance to local educational agencies, parents, and Indian tribes to enable such agencies, parents, and tribes to carry out this section; and

(2) enforce this section through such actions, which may include the withholding of funds, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, after affording the affected local educational agency, parents, and Indian tribe an opportunity to present their views.


(e) Complaints(1) In general(A) Any tribe, or its designee, which has students in attendance at a local educational agency may, in its discretion and without regard to the requirements of any other provision of law, file a written complaint with the Secretary regarding any action of a local educational agency taken pursuant to, or relevant to, the requirements of this section.

(B) Within ten working days from receipt of a complaint, the Secretary shall—(i) designate a time and place for a hearing into the matters relating to the complaint at a location in close proximity to the local educational agency involved, or if the Secretary determines there is good cause, at some other location convenient to both the tribe, or its designee, and the local educational agency;

(ii) designate a hearing examiner to conduct the hearing; and

(iii) notify the affected tribe or tribes and the local educational agency involved of the time, place, and nature of the hearing and send copies of the complaint to the local educational agency and the affected tribe or tribes.



(2) HearingThe hearing shall be held within 30 days of the designation of a hearing examiner and shall be open to the public. A record of the proceedings shall be established and maintained.


(3) Evidence; recommendations; costThe complaining tribe, or its designee, and the local educational agency shall be entitled to present evidence on matters relevant to the complaint and to make recommendations concerning the appropriate remedial actions. Each party to the hearing shall bear only its own costs in the proceedings.


(4) Findings and recommendationsWithin 30 days of the completion of the hearing, the hearing examiner shall, on the basis of the record, make written findings of fact and recommendations concerning appropriate remedial action, if any, which should be taken. The hearing examiner’s findings and recommendations, along with the hearing record, shall be forwarded to the Secretary.


(5) Written determinationWithin 30 days of the Secretary’s receipt of the findings, recommendations, and record, the Secretary shall, on the basis of the record, make a written determination of the appropriate remedial action, if any, to be taken by the local educational agency, the schedule for completion of the remedial action, and the reasons for the Secretary’s decision.


(6) Copies providedUpon completion of the Secretary’s final determination, the Secretary shall provide the complaining tribe, or its designee, and the local educational agency with copies of the hearing record, the hearing examiner’s findings and recommendations, and the Secretary’s final determination. The final determination of the Secretary shall be subject to judicial review.


(7) ConsolidationIn all actions under this subsection, the Secretary shall have discretion to consolidate complaints involving the same tribe or local educational agency.


(8) WithholdingIf the local educational agency rejects the determination of the Secretary, or if the remedy required is not undertaken within the time established and the Secretary determines that an extension of the time established will not effectively encourage the remedy required, the Secretary shall withhold payment of all moneys to which such local agency is eligible under section 7703 of this title until such time as the remedy required is undertaken, except where the complaining tribe or its designee formally requests that such funds be released to the local educational agency, except that the Secretary may not withhold such moneys during the course of the school year if the Secretary determines that such withholding would substantially disrupt the educational programs of the local educational agency.


(9) Rejection of determinationIf the local educational agency rejects the determination of the Secretary and a tribe exercises the option under section 1101(d) of the Education Amendments of 1978, to have education services provided either directly by the Bureau of Indian Affairs or by contract with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, any Indian students affiliated with that tribe who wish to remain in attendance at the local educational agency against whom the complaint which led to the tribal action under such subsection (d) of this section was lodged may be counted with respect to that local educational agency for the purpose of receiving funds under section 7703 of this title. In such event, funds under such section shall not be withheld pursuant to paragraph (8) and no further complaints with respect to such students may be filed under paragraph (1).



(f) ConstructionThis section is based upon the special relationship between the Indian nations and the United States and nothing in this section shall be construed to relieve any State of any duty with respect to any citizens of that State.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title VIII, § 8004, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title I, § 101, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3759.)


References in TextSection 1101(d) of the Education Amendments of 1978, referred to in subsec. (e)(9), is section 1101(d) of Pub. L. 95–561, Nov. 1, 1978, 92 Stat. 2315, set out below.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 8004 of Pub. L. 89–10 was renumbered section 9004 and was classified to section 3384 of this title, prior to the general amendment of Pub. L. 89–10 by Pub. L. 103–382.

Contract Authority of Indian Tribes if Remedial Action Is Not Taken; Election To Have Services Provided by Bureau Schools; Special RegulationsPub. L. 95–561, title XI, § 1101(d), Nov. 1, 1978, 92 Stat. 2315, directed Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, in cooperation with Commissioner of Education, within one year of Nov. 1, 1978, to promulgate special regulations which would provide that where a local educational agency had not undertaken the remedial action required by the Commissioner under 20 U.S.C. 240(b)(3)(C)(vi), the affected tribes could elect for the Bureau of Indian Affairs to provide educational services provided by the local educational agency.


