§ 360ccc–2. Designated new animal drugs for minor use or minor species(a) Designation(1) The manufacturer or the sponsor of a new animal drug for a minor use or use in a minor species may request that the Secretary declare that drug a “designated new animal drug”. A request for designation of a new animal drug shall be made before the submission of an application under section 360b(b) of this title or section 360ccc of this title for the new animal drug.

(2) The Secretary may declare a new animal drug a “designated new animal drug” if—(A) it is intended for a minor use or use in a minor species; and

(B) the same drug in the same dosage form for the same intended use is not approved under section 360b or 360ccc of this title or designated under this section at the time the request is made.


(3) Regarding the termination of a designation—(A) the sponsor of a new animal drug shall notify the Secretary of any decision to discontinue active pursuit of approval under section 360b or 360ccc of this title of an application for a designated new animal drug. The Secretary shall terminate the designation upon such notification;

(B) the Secretary may also terminate designation if the Secretary independently determines that the sponsor is not actively pursuing approval under section 360b or 360ccc of this title with due diligence;

(C) the sponsor of an approved designated new animal drug shall notify the Secretary of any discontinuance of the manufacture of such new animal drug at least one year before discontinuance. The Secretary shall terminate the designation upon such notification; and

(D) the designation shall terminate upon the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period under subsection (c) of this section.


(4) Notice respecting the designation or termination of designation of a new animal drug shall be made available to the public.


(b) Grants and contracts for development of designated new animal drugs(1) The Secretary may make grants to and enter into contracts with public and private entities and individuals to assist in defraying the costs of qualified safety and effectiveness testing expenses and manufacturing expenses incurred in connection with the development of designated new animal drugs.

(2) For purposes of paragraph (1) of this section—(A) The term “qualified safety and effectiveness testing” means testing—(i) which occurs after the date such new animal drug is designated under this section and before the date on which an application with respect to such drug is submitted under section 360b of this title; and

(ii) which is carried out under an investigational exemption under section 360b(j) of this title.


(B) The term “manufacturing expenses” means expenses incurred in developing processes and procedures associated with manufacture of the designated new animal drug which occur after the new animal drug is designated under this section and before the date on which an application with respect to such new animal drug is submitted under section 360b or 360ccc of this title.



(c) Exclusivity for designated new animal drugs(1) Except as provided in subsection (c)(2) of this section, if the Secretary approves or conditionally approves an application for a designated new animal drug, the Secretary may not approve or conditionally approve another application submitted for such new animal drug with the same intended use as the designated new animal drug for another applicant before the expiration of seven years from the date of approval or conditional approval of the application.

(2) If an application filed pursuant to section 360b of this title or section 360ccc of this title is approved for a designated new animal drug, the Secretary may, during the 7-year exclusivity period beginning on the date of the application approval or conditional approval, approve or conditionally approve another application under section 360b of this title or section 360ccc of this title for such drug for such minor use or minor species for another applicant if—(A) the Secretary finds, after providing the holder of such an approved application notice and opportunity for the submission of views, that in the granted exclusivity period the holder of the approved application cannot assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the drug to meet the needs for which the drug was designated; or

(B) such holder provides written consent to the Secretary for the approval or conditional approval of other applications before the expiration of such exclusivity period.



(June 25, 1938, ch. 675, § 573, as added Pub. L. 108–282, title I, § 102(b)(4), Aug. 2, 2004, 118 Stat. 900.)
