“SEC. 5. AROOSTOOK BAND TRUST LANDS.“(a) In General.—Subject to the provisions of section 4, the Secretary is authorized and directed to expend, at the request of the Band, the principal of, and income accruing on, the Land Acquisition Fund for the purposes of acquiring land or natural resources for the Band and for no other purposes. Land or natural resources acquired within the State of Maine with funds expended under the authority of this subsection shall be held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Band.

“(b) Alienation.—(1) Land or natural resources acquired with funds expended under the authority of subsection (a) and held in trust for the benefit of the Band may be alienated only by—“(A) takings for public use pursuant to the laws of the State of Maine as provided in subsection (c);

“(B) takings for public use pursuant to the laws of the United States; or

“(C) transfers made pursuant to an Act or joint resolution of Congress.


All other transfers of land or natural resources acquired with funds expended under the authority of subsection (a) and held in trust for the benefit of such Band shall be void ab initio and without any validity in law or equity.

“(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall not prohibit or limit transfers of individual use assignments of land or natural resources from one member of the Band to another member of such Band.

“(3) Land or natural resources held in trust for the benefit of the Band may, at the request of the Band, be—“(A) leased in accordance with the Act of August 9, 1955 (25 U.S.C. 415 et seq.);

“(B) leased in accordance with the Act of May 11, 1938 (25 U.S.C. 396a et seq.);

“(C) sold in accordance with section 7 of the Act of June 25, 1910 (25 U.S.C. 407);

“(D) subjected to rights-of-way in accordance with the Act of February 5, 1948 (25 U.S.C. 323 et seq.);

“(E) exchanged for other land or natural resources of equal value, or if they are not equal, the values shall be equalized by the payment of money to the grantor or to the Secretary for deposit in the land acquisition fund for the benefit of the Band, as the circumstances require, so long as payment does not exceed 25 percent of the total value of the interests in land to be transferred by the Band; and

“(F) sold, only if at the time of sale the Secretary has entered into an option agreement or contract of sale to purchase other lands of approximate equal value.



“(c) Condemnation by State of Maine and Political Subdivisions Thereof.—(1) Land or natural resources acquired with funds expended under the authority of subsection (a) and held in trust for the benefit of the Band may be condemned for public purposes by the State of Maine, or any political subdivision thereof, only upon such terms and conditions as shall be agreed upon in writing between the State and such Band after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 26, 1991].

“(2) The consent of the United States is hereby given to the State of Maine to further amend the Micmac Settlement Act for the purpose of embodying the agreement described in paragraph (1).


“(d) Acquisition.—(1) Lands and natural resources may be acquired by the Secretary for the Band only if the Secretary has, at any time prior to such acquisition—“(A) transmitted a letter to the Secretary of State of the State of Maine stating that the Band Tax Fund contains $50,000; and

“(B) provided the Secretary of State of the State of Maine with a copy of the procedures for filing and payment of claims prescribed under section 4(d).


“(2)(A) No land or natural resources may be acquired by the Secretary for the Band until the Secretary files with the Secretary of State of the State of Maine a certified copy of the deed, contract, or other conveyance setting forth the location and boundaries of the land or natural resources to be acquired.

“(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), a filing with the Secretary of State of the State of Maine may be made by mail and, if such method of filing is used, shall be considered to be completed on the date on which the document is properly mailed to the Secretary of State of the State of Maine.


“(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of the first section of the Act of August 1, 1888 (40 U.S.C. 257) [now 40 U.S.C. 3113] and the first section of the Act of February 26, 1931 (40 U.S.C. 258a) [now 40 U.S.C. 3114(a)–(d)], the Secretary may acquire land or natural resources under this section from the ostensible owner of the land or natural resources only if the Secretary and the ostensible owner of the land or natural resources have agreed upon the identity of the land or natural resources to be sold and upon the purchase price and other terms of sale. Subject to the agreement required by the preceding sentence, the Secretary may institute condemnation proceedings in order to perfect title, satisfactory to the Attorney General of the United States, in the United States and condemn interests adverse to the ostensible owner.

“(4)(A) When trust or restricted land or natural resources of the Band are condemned pursuant to any law of the United States other than this Act, the proceeds paid in compensation for such condemnation shall be deposited into the Land Acquisition Fund and shall be reinvested in acreage within unorganized or unincorporated areas of the State of Maine. When the proceeds are reinvested in land whose acreage does not exceed that of the land taken, all the land shall be acquired in trust. When the proceeds are invested in land whose acreage exceeds the acreage of the land taken, the Band shall designate, with the approval of the United States, and within 30 days of such reinvestment, that portion of the land acquired by the reinvestment, not to exceed the area taken, which shall be acquired in trust. The land acquired from the proceeds that is not acquired in trust shall be held in fee by the Band. The Secretary shall certify, in writing, to the Secretary of State of the State of Maine the location, boundaries, and status of the land acquired from the proceeds.

“(B) The State of Maine shall have initial jurisdiction over condemnation proceedings brought under this section. The United States shall be a necessary party to any such condemnation proceedings. After exhaustion of all State administrative remedies, the United States is authorized to seek judicial review of all relevant matters involved in such condemnation proceedings in the courts of the United States and shall have an absolute right of removal, at its discretion, over any action commenced in the courts of the State.


“(5) Land or natural resources acquired by the Secretary in trust for the Band shall be managed and administered in accordance with terms established by the Band and agreed to by the Secretary in accordance with section 102 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450f) or other applicable law.


