§ 2291–5. Provision of nonlethal equipment to foreign law enforcement organizations for cooperative illicit narcotics control activities(a) In general(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, in consultation with the Secretary of State, may transfer or lease each year nonlethal equipment to foreign law enforcement organizations for the purpose of establishing and carrying out cooperative illicit narcotics control activities.

(2)(A) The Administrator may transfer or lease equipment under paragraph (1) only if the equipment is not designated as a munitions item or controlled on the United States Munitions List pursuant to section 2778 of this title.

(B) The value of each piece of equipment transferred or leased under paragraph (1) may not exceed $100,000.



(b) Additional requirementThe Administrator shall provide for the maintenance and repair of any equipment transferred or leased under subsection (a) of this section.


(c) Notification requirementBefore the export of any item authorized for transfer under subsection (a) of this section, the Administrator shall provide written notice to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 2394–1 of this title.


(d) Sense of CongressIt is the sense of Congress that—(1) all United States law enforcement personnel serving in Mexico should be accredited the same status under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Immunity as other diplomatic personnel serving at United States posts in Mexico; and

(2) all Mexican narcotics law enforcement personnel serving in the United States should be accorded the same diplomatic status as Drug Enforcement Administration personnel serving in Mexico.


(Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title VIII, § 843, Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–704.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Western Hemisphere Drug Elimination Act, and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1999, and not as part of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 which comprises this chapter.


Change of Name
Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


