§ 564w–1. Klamath Indian Forest and Klamath Marsh
Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 564d and 564e of this title, and all Acts amendatory thereof—(a) Designation of boundariesThe tribal lands that comprise the Klamath Indian Forest, and the tribal lands that comprise the Klamath Marsh, shall be designated by the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, jointly.


(b) Sales; terms and conditionsThe portion of the Klamath Indian Forest that is selected for sale pursuant to section 564d(a)(3) of this title to pay members who withdraw from the tribe shall be offered for sale by the Secretary of the Interior in appropriate units, on the basis of competitive bids, to any purchaser or purchasers who agree to manage the forest lands as far as practicable according to sustained yield procedures so as to furnish a continuous supply of timber according to plans to be prepared and submitted by them for approval and inclusion in the conveyancing instruments in accordance with specifications and requirements referred to in the invitations for bids: Provided, That no sale shall be for a price that is less than the realization value of the units involved determined as provided in subsection (c) of this section. The terms and conditions of the sales shall be prescribed by the Secretary. The specifications and minimum requirements to be included in the invitations for bids, and the determination of appropriate units for sale, shall be developed and made jointly by the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture. Such plans when prepared by the purchaser shall include provisions for the conservation of soil and water resources as well as for the management of the timber resources as hereinbefore set forth in this section. Such plans shall be satisfactory to and have the approval of the Secretary of Agriculture as complying with the minimum standards included in said specifications and requirements before the prospective purchaser shall be entitled to have his bid considered by the Secretary of the Interior and the failure on the part of the purchaser to prepare and submit a satisfactory plan to the Secretary of Agriculture shall constitute grounds for rejection of such bid. Such plans shall be incorporated as conditions in the conveyancing instruments executed by the Secretary and shall be binding on the grantee and all successors in interest. The conveyancing instruments shall provide for a forfeiture and a reversion of title to the lands to the United States, not in trust for or subject to Indian use, in the event of a breach of such conditions. The purchase price paid by the grantee shall be deemed to represent the full appraised fair market value of the lands, undiminished by the right of reversion retained by the United States in a nontrust status, and the retention of such right of reversion shall not be the basis for any claim against the United States. The Secretary of Agriculture shall be responsible for enforcing such conditions. Upon any reversion of title pursuant to this subsection, the lands shall become national forest lands subject to the laws that are applicable to lands acquired pursuant to the Act of March 1, 1911 (36 Stat. 961), as amended.


(c) Appraisals; notice to Congressional committees; appropriation; realization value; report to Congressional committeesWithin sixty days after August 23, 1958 the Secretary of the Interior shall contract by negotiation with three qualified appraisers or three qualified appraisal organizations for a review of the appraisal approved by the Secretary pursuant to section 564d(a)(2) of this title. In such review full consideration shall be given to all reasonably ascertainable elements of land, forest, and mineral values. Not less than thirty days before executing such contracts the Secretary shall notify the chairman of the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the chairman of the Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the names and addresses of the appraisers selected. The cost of the appraisal review shall be paid from tribal funds which are made available for such purpose, subject to full reimbursement by the United States, and the appropriation of funds for that purpose is authorized. Upon the basis of a review of the appraisal heretofore made of the forest units and marsh lands involved and such other materials as may be readily available, including additional market data since the date of the prior appraisal, but without making any new and independent appraisal, each appraiser shall estimate the fair market value of such forest units and marsh lands as if they had been offered for sale on a competitive market without limitation on use during the interval between the adjournment of the Eighty-fifth Congress and the termination date specified in section 564e(b) of this title. This value shall be known as the realization value. If the three appraisers are not able to agree on the realization value of such forest units and marsh lands, then such realization values shall be determined by averaging the values estimated by each appraiser. The Secretary shall report such realization values to the chairman of the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and to the chairman of the Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs not later than January 15, 1959. No sale of forest units that comprise the Klamath Indian Forest designated pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall be made under the provisions of this subchapter prior to April 1, 1959.


(d) Unsold forest units and marsh lands; title after publication in Federal Register; aggregate realization value; appropriationIf all of the forest units offered for sale in accordance with subsection (b) of this section are not sold before April 1, 1961, the Secretary of Agriculture shall publish in the Federal Register a proclamation taking title in the name of the United States to as many of the unsold units or parts thereof as have, together with the Klamath Marsh lands acquired pursuant to subsection (f) of the section, an aggregate realization value of not to exceed $90,000,000, which shall be the maximum amount payable for lands acquired by the United States pursuant to this subchapter. Compensation for the forest lands so taken shall be the realization value of the lands determined as provided in subsection (c) of this section, unless a different amount is provided by law enacted prior to the proclamation of the Secretary of Agriculture. Appropriation of funds for that purpose is authorized. Payment shall be made as soon as possible after the proclamation of the Secretary of Agriculture. Such lands shall become national forest lands subject to the laws that are applicable to lands acquired pursuant to the Act of March 1, 1911 (36 Stat. 961), as amended. Any of the forest units that are offered for sale and that are not sold or taken pursuant to subsection (b) or (d) of this section shall be subject to sale without limitation on use in accordance with the provisions of section 564d of this title.


(e) Sale of retained lands to Secretary of AgricultureIf at any time any of the tribal lands that comprise the Klamath Indian Forest and that are retained by the tribe are offered for sale other than to members of the tribe, such lands shall first be offered for sale to the Secretary of Agriculture, who shall be given a period of twelve months after the date of each such offer within which to purchase such lands. No such lands shall be sold at a price below the price at which they have been offered for sale to the Secretary of Agriculture, and if such lands are reoffered for sale they shall first be reoffered to the Secretary of Agriculture. The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to purchase such lands subject to such terms and conditions as to the use thereof as he may deem appropriate, and any lands so acquired shall thereupon become national forest lands subject to the laws that are applicable to lands acquired pursuant to the Act of March 1, 1911 (36 Stat. 961), as amended.


(f) Klamath Marsh National Wildlife Refuge; appropriationThe lands that comprise the Klamath Marsh shall be a part of the property selected for sale pursuant to section 564d(a)(3) of this title to pay members who withdraw from the tribe. Title to such lands is taken in the name of the United States, effective the earliest date after September 30, 1959, when the Secretary of the Interior determines that funds for the payment of the purchase price are available from the sale of stamps under the Migratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act of March 16, 1934, as amended [16 U.S.C. 718 et seq.]. Such lands are designated as the Klamath Marsh National Wildlife Refuge, which shall be administered in accordance with the law applicable to areas acquired pursuant to section 4 of the Act of March 16, 1934 (48 Stat. 451), as amended or supplemented [16 U.S.C. 718d]. Compensation for said taking shall be the realization value of the lands determined in accordance with subsection (c) of this section, and shall be paid out of funds in the Treasury of the United States, which are authorized to be appropriated for that purpose.


(g) HomesitesAny person whose name appears on the final roll of the tribe, and who has since December 31, 1956, continuously resided on any lands taken by the United States by subsections (d) and (f) of this section, shall be entitled to occupy and use as a homesite for his lifetime a reasonable acreage of such lands, as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture, subject to such regulations as the Secretary of Agriculture may issue to safeguard the administration of the national forest and as the Secretary of the Interior may issue to safeguard the administration of the Klamath Marsh National Wildlife Refuge.


(h) Administration of outstanding timber sales contractsIf title to any of the lands comprising the Klamath Indian Forest is taken by the United States, the administration of any outstanding timber sales contracts thereon entered into by the Secretary of the Interior as trustee for the Klamath Indians shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture.


(i) Right of United States to use roadsAll sales of tribal lands pursuant to subsection (b) of this section or pursuant to section 564d of this title on which roads are located shall be made subject to the right of the United States and its assigns to maintain and use such roads.


(Aug. 13, 1954, ch. 732, § 28, as added Pub. L. 85–731, § 1, Aug. 23, 1958, 72 Stat. 816; amended Pub. L. 86–247, Sept. 9, 1959, 73 Stat. 477; Pub. L. 105–312, title II, § 205, Oct. 30, 1998, 112 Stat. 2957; Pub. L. 105–321, § 4(e), Oct. 30, 1998, 112 Stat. 3025.)


References in TextAct of March 1, 1911, referred to in subsecs. (b), (d), and (e), is act Mar. 1, 1911, ch. 186, 36 Stat. 961, as amended, popularly known as the Weeks Law, which is classified to sections 480, 500, 513 to 519, 521, 552, and 563 of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 552 of Title 16 and Tables.
The adjournment of the Eighty-fifth Congress, referred to in subsec. (c) of this section, took place on Aug. 24, 1958.
The Migratory Bird Hunting Stamp Act, referred to in subsec. (f), subsequently renamed the Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation Stamp Act, is act Mar. 16, 1934, ch. 71, 48 Stat. 451, as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 718 et seq.) of chapter 7 of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 718 of Title 16 and Tables.

Amendments1998—Subsecs. (f), (g). Pub. L. 105–312 and Pub. L. 105–321 amended subsecs. (f) and (g) identically, substituting “Klamath Marsh National Wildlife Refuge” for “Klamath Forest National Wildlife Refuge”.
1959—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 86–247 changed date for Federal acquisition of Klamath Indian Marsh from April 1, 1961, to earliest date after September 30, 1959, that funds are available to pay for property from sale of stamps.


Change of Name
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the Senate abolished and replaced by Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, effective Feb. 11, 1977. See Rule XXV of Standing Rules of the Senate, as amended by Senate Resolution No. 4, Ninety-fifth Congress (popularly cited as the “Committee System Reorganization Amendments of 1977”), approved Feb. 4, 1977. Section 105 of Senate Resolution No. 4 established a temporary Select Committee on Indian Affairs having jurisdiction over matters relating to Indian affairs (such matters previously having been within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs). Senate Resolution No. 127, June 6, 1984, Ninety-eighth Congress, established the Select Committee on Indian Affairs as a permanent committee of the Senate, and section 25 of Senate Resolution No. 71, Feb. 25, 1993, One Hundred Third Congress, redesignated the Select Committee on Indian Affairs as the Committee on Indian Affairs.
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.


