§ 903c. Tribal constitution and bylaws(a) Election; time and procedureUpon request from the Menominee Restoration Committee, the Secretary shall conduct an election by secret ballot, pursuant to the provisions of the Act of June 18, 1934, as amended [25 U.S.C. 461 et seq.], for the purpose of determining the tribe’s constitution and bylaws. The election shall be held within sixty days after final certification of the tribal roll.


(b) Distribution by Menominee Restoration Committee prior to election of proposed constitution and bylaws and brief impartial description; consultations by Committee with persons entitled to voteThe Menominee Restoration Committee shall distribute to all enrolled persons who are entitled to vote in the election, at least thirty days before the election, a copy of the constitution and bylaws as drafted by the Menominee Restoration Committee which will be presented at the election, along with a brief impartial description of the constitution and bylaws. The Menominee Restoration Committee shall freely consult with persons entitled to vote in the election concerning the text and description of the constitution and bylaws. Such consultation shall not be carried on within fifty feet of the polling places on the date of the election.


(c) Election of tribal officers provided for in constitution and bylaws; time and procedure for initial election; subsequent elections governed by constitution, bylaws and ordinancesWithin one hundred and twenty days after the tribe adopts a constitution and bylaws, the Menominee Restoration Committee shall conduct an election by secret ballot for the purpose of determining the individuals who will serve as tribal officials as provided in the tribal constitution and bylaws. For the purpose of this initial election and notwithstanding any provision in the tribal constitution and bylaws to the contrary, absentee balloting shall be permitted and all tribal members who are eighteen years of age or over shall be entitled to vote in the election. All further elections of tribal officers shall be as provided in the tribal constitution and bylaws and ordinances adopted thereunder.


(d) Majority vote necessary for passage and initial election of tribal governing body; minimum number of voters required to voteIn any election held pursuant to this section, the vote of a majority of those actually voting shall be necessary and sufficient to effectuate the adoption of a tribal constitution and bylaws and the initial election of the tribe’s governing body, so long as, in each such election, the total vote cast is at least 30 per centum of those entitled to vote.


(e) Revision of time periods pursuant to agreement of Secretary and Menominee Restoration CommitteeThe time periods set forth in section 903b(c) of this title and subsections (a) and (c) of this section may be changed by the written agreement of the Secretary and the Menominee Restoration Committee.


(Pub. L. 93–197, § 5, Dec. 22, 1973, 87 Stat. 772.)


References in TextAct of June 18, 1934, referred to in subsec. (a), popularly known as the Indian Reorganization Act, is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 461 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 461 of this title and Tables.


