§ 3211. Job Corps oversight and reporting(a) Temporary financial reporting(1) In generalDuring the periods described in paragraphs (2) and (3)(B), the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the applicable committees financial reports regarding the Job Corps program under this part. Each such financial report shall include—(A) information regarding the implementation of the financial oversight measures suggested in the May 31, 2013, report of the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Labor entitled “The U.S. Department of Labor’s Employment and Training Administration Needs to Strengthen Controls over Job Corps Funds”;

(B) a description of any budgetary shortfalls for the program for the period covered by the financial report, and the reasons for such shortfalls; and

(C) a description and explanation for any approval for contract expenditures that are in excess of the amounts provided for under the contract.


(2) Timing of reportsThe Secretary shall submit a financial report under paragraph (1) once every 6 months beginning on July 22, 2014, for a 3-year period. After the completion of such 3-year period, the Secretary shall submit a financial report under such paragraph once a year for the next 2 years, unless additional reports are required under paragraph (3)(B).


(3) Reporting requirements in cases of budgetary shortfallsIf any financial report required under this subsection finds that the Job Corps program under this part has a budgetary shortfall for the period covered by the report, the Secretary shall—(A) not later than 90 days after the budgetary shortfall was identified, submit a report to the applicable committees explaining how the budgetary shortfall will be addressed; and

(B) submit an additional financial report under paragraph (1) for each 6-month period subsequent to the finding of the budgetary shortfall until the Secretary demonstrates, through such report, that the Job Corps program has no budgetary shortfall.



(b) Third-party reviewEvery 5 years after July 22, 2014, the Secretary shall provide for a third-party review of the Job Corps program under this part that addresses all of the areas described in subparagraphs (A) through (G) of section 3224(a)(2) of this title. The results of the review shall be submitted to the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.


(c) Criteria for Job Corps center closuresBy not later than December 1, 2014, the Secretary shall establish written criteria that the Secretary shall use to determine when a Job Corps center supported under this part is to be closed and how to carry out such closure, and shall submit such criteria to the applicable committees.


(d) Definition of applicable committeesIn this section, the term “applicable committees” means—(1) the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives;

(2) the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies of the Committee of Appropriations of the House of Representatives;

(3) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate; and

(4) the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies of the Committee of Appropriations of the Senate.


(Pub. L. 113–128, title I, § 161, July 22, 2014, 128 Stat. 1558.)

Effective DateSection effective on the first day of the first full program year after July 22, 2014 [probably July 1, 2015], see section 506 of Pub. L. 113–128, set out as a note under section 3101 of this title.


