§ 7215. Local uses of funds(a) Innovative assistance programsFunds made available to local educational agencies under section 7211a of this title shall be used for innovative assistance programs, which may include any of the following:(1) Programs to recruit, train, and hire highly qualified teachers to reduce class size, especially in the early grades, and professional development activities carried out in accordance with subchapter II of this chapter, that give teachers, principals, and administrators the knowledge and skills to provide students with the opportunity to meet challenging State or local academic content standards and student academic achievement standards.

(2) Technology activities related to the implementation of school-based reform efforts, including professional development to assist teachers and other school personnel (including school library media personnel) regarding how to use technology effectively in the classrooms and the school library media centers involved.

(3) Programs for the development or acquisition and use of instructional and educational materials, including library services and materials (including media materials), academic assessments, reference materials, computer software and hardware for instructional use, and other curricular materials that are tied to high academic standards, that will be used to improve student academic achievement, and that are part of an overall education reform program.

(4) Promising education reform projects, including magnet schools.

(5) Programs to improve the academic achievement of educationally disadvantaged elementary school and secondary school students, including activities to prevent students from dropping out of school.

(6) Programs to improve the literacy skills of adults, especially the parents of children served by the local educational agency, including adult education and family literacy programs.

(7) Programs to provide for the educational needs of gifted and talented children.

(8) The planning, design, and initial implementation of charter schools as described in part B of this subchapter.

(9) School improvement programs or activities under sections 6316 and 6317 of this title.

(10) Community service programs that use qualified school personnel to train and mobilize young people to measurably strengthen their communities through nonviolence, responsibility, compassion, respect, and moral courage.

(11) Activities to promote consumer, economic, and personal finance education, such as disseminating information on and encouraging use of the best practices for teaching the basic principles of economics and promoting the concept of achieving financial literacy through the teaching of personal financial management skills (including the basic principles involved with earning, spending, saving, and investing).

(12) Activities to promote, implement, or expand public school choice.

(13) Programs to hire and support school nurses.

(14) Expansion and improvement of school-based mental health services, including early identification of drug use and violence, assessment, and direct individual or group counseling services provided to students, parents, and school personnel by qualified school-based mental health services personnel.

(15) Alternative educational programs for those students who have been expelled or suspended from their regular educational setting, including programs to assist students to reenter the regular educational setting upon return from treatment or alternative educational programs.

(16) Programs to establish or enhance prekindergarten programs for children.

(17) Academic intervention programs that are operated jointly with community-based organizations and that support academic enrichment, and counseling programs conducted during the school day (including during extended school day or extended school year programs), for students most at risk of not meeting challenging State academic achievement standards or not completing secondary school.

(18) Programs for cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) training in schools.

(19) Programs to establish smaller learning communities.

(20) Activities that encourage and expand improvements throughout the area served by the local educational agency that are designed to advance student academic achievement.

(21) Initiatives to generate, maintain, and strengthen parental and community involvement.

(22) Programs and activities that expand learning opportunities through best-practice models designed to improve classroom learning and teaching.

(23) Programs to provide same-gender schools and classrooms (consistent with applicable law).

(24) Service learning activities.

(25) School safety programs, including programs to implement the policy described in section 9507 11 So in original. Pub. L. 89–10 does not contain a section 9507. and which may include payment of reasonable transportation costs and tuition costs for such students.

(26) Programs that employ research-based cognitive and perceptual development approaches and rely on a diagnostic-prescriptive model to improve students’ learning of academic content at the preschool, elementary, and secondary levels.

(27) Supplemental educational services, as defined in section 6316(e) of this title.


(b) RequirementsThe innovative assistance programs described in subsection (a) of this section shall be—(1) tied to promoting challenging academic achievement standards;

(2) used to improve student academic achievement; and

(3) part of an overall education reform strategy.


(c) GuidelinesNot later than 120 days after January 8, 2002, the Secretary shall issue guidelines for local educational agencies seeking funding for programs described in subsection (a)(23) of this section.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title V, § 5131, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title V, § 501, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1781.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 5131 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 3211 of this title, prior to the general amendment of Pub. L. 89–10 by Pub. L. 103–382.


