§ 7823. Consolidation of funds for local administration.(a) General authorityIn accordance with regulations of the Secretary and for any fiscal year, a local educational agency, with the approval of its State educational agency, may consolidate and use for the administration of one or more programs under this chapter (or such other programs as the Secretary shall designate) not more than the percentage, established in each program, of the total available for the local educational agency under those programs.


(b) State proceduresWithin 1 year after January 8, 2002, a State educational agency shall, in collaboration with local educational agencies in the State, establish procedures for responding to requests from local educational agencies to consolidate administrative funds under subsection (a) of this section and for establishing limitations on the amount of funds under those programs that may be used for administration on a consolidated basis.


(c) ConditionsA local educational agency that consolidates administrative funds under this section for any fiscal year shall not use any other funds under the programs included in the consolidation for administration for that fiscal year.


(d) Uses of administrative fundsA local educational agency that consolidates administrative funds under this section may use the consolidated funds for the administration of the programs and for uses, at the school district and school levels, comparable to those described in section 7821(b)(2) of this title.


(e) RecordsA local educational agency that consolidates administrative funds under this section shall not be required to keep separate records, by individual program, to account for costs relating to the administration of the programs included in the consolidation.


(Pub. L. 89–10, title IX, § 9203, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title IX, § 901, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1967.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 9203 of Pub. L. 89–10 was classified to section 7903 of this title, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 107–110.


