§ 6085. Effective date(a) In generalSubject to subsections (b) and (c) of this section, this subchapter and the amendments made by this subchapter shall take effect on August 1, 1996.


(b) Suspension authority(1) Suspension authorityThe President may suspend the effective date under subsection (a) of this section for a period of not more than 6 months if the President determines and reports in writing to the appropriate congressional committees at least 15 days before such effective date that the suspension is necessary to the national interests of the United States and will expedite a transition to democracy in Cuba.


(2) Additional suspensionsThe President may suspend the effective date under subsection (a) of this section for additional periods of not more than 6 months each, each of which shall begin on the day after the last day of the period during which a suspension is in effect under this subsection, if the President determines and reports in writing to the appropriate congressional committees at least 15 days before the date on which the additional suspension is to begin that the suspension is necessary to the national interests of the United States and will expedite a transition to democracy in Cuba.



(c) Other authorities(1) SuspensionAfter this subchapter and the amendments of this subchapter have taken effect—(A) no person shall acquire a property interest in any potential or pending action under this subchapter; and

(B) the President may suspend the right to bring an action under this subchapter with respect to confiscated property for a period of not more than 6 months if the President determines and reports in writing to the appropriate congressional committees at least 15 days before the suspension takes effect that such suspension is necessary to the national interests of the United States and will expedite a transition to democracy in Cuba.


(2) Additional suspensionsThe President may suspend the right to bring an action under this subchapter for additional periods of not more than 6 months each, each of which shall begin on the day after the last day of the period during which a suspension is in effect under this subsection, if the President determines and reports in writing to the appropriate congressional committees at least 15 days before the date on which the additional suspension is to begin that the suspension is necessary to the national interests of the United States and will expedite a transition to democracy in Cuba.


(3) Pending suitsThe suspensions of actions under paragraph (1) shall not affect suits commenced before the date of such suspension, and in all such suits, proceedings shall be had, appeals taken, and judgments rendered in the same manner and with the same effect as if the suspension had not occurred.



(d) Rescission of suspensionThe President may rescind any suspension made under subsection (b) or (c) of this section upon reporting to the appropriate congressional committees that doing so will expedite a transition to democracy in Cuba.


(Pub. L. 104–114, title III, § 306, Mar. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 821.)


References in TextThis subchapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (c)(1), was in the original “this title”, meaning title III of Pub. L. 104–114, Mar. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 814, which enacted this subchapter and sections 1643l and 1643m of this title and amended section 1611 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Tables.


Delegation of Authority To Suspend the Provisions of Title III of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996
Memorandum of President of the United States, Jan. 31, 2013, 78 F.R. 9573, provided:
Memorandum for the Secretary of State
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, I hereby delegate to you the authority to suspend the provisions of title III of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–114; 22 U.S.C. 6021–6091), as authorized by section 306(c)(2) of the Act.
You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.

Barack Obama.



