§ 1059g. Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions(a) Program authorizedThe Secretary shall provide grants and related assistance to Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions to enable such institutions to improve and expand their capacity to serve Asian Americans and Native American Pacific Islanders and low-income individuals.


(b) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Asian AmericanThe term “Asian American” has the meaning given the term “Asian” in the Office of Management and Budget’s Standards for Maintaining, Collecting, and Presenting Federal Data on Race and Ethnicity as published on October 30, 1997 (62 Fed. Reg. 58789).


(2) Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutionThe term “Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution” means an institution of higher education that—(A) is an eligible institution under section 1058(b) of this title; and

(B) at the time of application, has an enrollment of undergraduate students that is not less than 10 percent students who are Asian American or Native American Pacific Islander.


(3) Native American Pacific IslanderThe term “Native American Pacific Islander” means any descendant of the aboriginal people of any island in the Pacific Ocean that is a territory or possession of the United States.



(c) Authorized activities(1) Types of activities authorizedGrants awarded under this section shall be used by Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institutions to assist such institutions to plan, develop, undertake, and carry out activities to improve and expand such institutions’ capacity to serve Asian Americans and Native American Pacific Islanders and low-income individuals.


(2) Examples of authorized activitiesSuch programs may include—(A) purchase, rental, or lease of scientific or laboratory equipment for educational purposes, including instructional and research purposes;

(B) renovation and improvement in classroom, library, laboratory, and other instructional facilities;

(C) support of faculty exchanges, and faculty development and faculty fellowships to assist in attaining advanced degrees in the faculty’s field of instruction;

(D) curriculum development and academic instruction;

(E) purchase of library books, periodicals, microfilm, and other educational materials;

(F) funds and administrative management, and acquisition of equipment for use in strengthening funds management;

(G) joint use of facilities such as laboratories and libraries;

(H) academic tutoring and counseling programs and student support services;

(I) establishing community outreach programs that will encourage elementary school and secondary school students to develop the academic skills and the interest to pursue postsecondary education;

(J) establishing or improving an endowment fund;

(K) academic instruction in disciplines in which Asian Americans and Native American Pacific Islanders are underrepresented;

(L) conducting research and data collection for Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander populations and subpopulations;

(M) establishing partnerships with community-based organizations serving Asian Americans and Native American Pacific Islanders; and

(N) education or counseling services designed to improve the financial and economic literacy of students or the students’ families.



(d) Application process(1) Institutional eligibilityEach Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution desiring to receive assistance under this section shall submit to the Secretary such enrollment data as may be necessary to demonstrate that the institution is an Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution as defined in subsection (b), along with such other information and data as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(2) ApplicationsAny institution that is determined by the Secretary to be an Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution may submit an application for assistance under this section to the Secretary. Such application shall include—(A) a five-year plan for improving the assistance provided by the Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution to Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander students and low-income individuals; and

(B) such other information and assurances as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(3) Special rules(A) EligibilityNo Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution that receives funds under this section shall concurrently receive funds under any other provision of this part, part B, or subchapter V.


(B) ExemptionSection 1059(d) of this title shall not apply to institutions that are eligible to receive funds under this section.


(C) DistributionIn awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall—(i) to the extent possible and consistent with the competitive process under which such grants are awarded, ensure maximum and equitable distribution among all eligible institutions; and

(ii) give priority consideration to institutions for which not less than 10 percent of such institution’s Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander students are low-income individuals.




(Pub. L. 89–329, title III, § 320, as added Pub. L. 110–315, title III, § 307, Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3175.)
