§ 545. Advisory Committee on the Readjustment of Veterans(a)(1) There is in the Department the Advisory Committee on the Readjustment of Veterans (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Committee”).

(2) The Committee shall consist of not more than 18 members appointed by the Secretary from among individuals who—(A) have demonstrated significant civic or professional achievement; and

(B) have experience with the provision of veterans benefits and services by the Department.


(3) The Secretary shall seek to ensure that members appointed to the Committee include individuals from a wide variety of geographic areas and ethnic backgrounds, individuals from veterans service organizations, individuals with combat experience, and women.

(4) The Secretary shall determine the terms of service and pay and allowances of the members of the Committee, except that a term of service may not exceed two years. The Secretary may reappoint any member for additional terms of service.


(b)(1) The Secretary shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek the advice of the Committee with respect to the provision by the Department of benefits and services to veterans in order to assist veterans in the readjustment to civilian life.

(2)(A) In providing advice to the Secretary under this subsection, the Committee shall—(i) assemble and review information relating to the needs of veterans in readjusting to civilian life;

(ii) provide information relating to the nature and character of psychological problems arising from service in the Armed Forces;

(iii) provide an on-going assessment of the effectiveness of the policies, organizational structures, and services of the Department in assisting veterans in readjusting to civilian life; and

(iv) provide on-going advice on the most appropriate means of responding to the readjustment needs of veterans in the future.


(B) In carrying out its duties under subparagraph (A), the Committee shall take into special account the needs of veterans who have served in a theater of combat operations.



(c)(1) Not later than March 31 of each year, the Committee shall submit to the Secretary a report on the programs and activities of the Department that relate to the readjustment of veterans to civilian life. Each such report shall include—(A) an assessment of the needs of veterans with respect to readjustment to civilian life;

(B) a review of the programs and activities of the Department designed to meet such needs; and

(C) such recommendations (including recommendations for administrative and legislative action) as the Committee considers appropriate.


(2) Not later than 90 days after the receipt of a report under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall transmit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a copy of the report, together with any comments and recommendations concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.

(3) The Committee may also submit to the Secretary such other reports and recommendations as the Committee considers appropriate.

(4) The Secretary shall submit with each annual report submitted to the Congress pursuant to section 529 of this title a summary of all reports and recommendations of the Committee submitted to the Secretary since the previous annual report of the Secretary submitted pursuant to that section.


(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the activities of the Committee under this section.

(2) Section 14 of such Act shall not apply to the Committee.


(Added Pub. L. 104–262, title III, § 333(a)(1), Oct. 9, 1996, 110 Stat. 3199; amended Pub. L. 107–14, § 8(a)(16), June 5, 2001, 115 Stat. 35.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Prior ProvisionsPrior section 545 of this title, Pub. L. 85–857, Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1139, authorized the payment of a pension to children of World War II or Korean conflict veterans and prescribed income limitations, prior to the general amendment of subchapter III of chapter 15 of this title by Pub. L. 86–211, § 4, Aug. 29, 1959, 73 Stat. 434. See section 1543 of this title.

Amendments2001—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 107–14 substituted “hereinafter” for “hereafter”.

Commission on Servicemembers and Veterans Transition AssistancePub. L. 104–275, title VII, Oct. 9, 1996, 110 Stat. 3346, as amended by Pub. L. 105–368, title X, § 1005(c)(2), Nov. 11, 1998, 112 Stat. 3366, provided that:
“SEC. 701. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.“(a) Establishment.—There is established a commission to be known as the Commission on Servicemembers and Veterans Transition Assistance (hereafter in this title referred to as the ‘Commission’).

“(b) Membership.—(1) The Commission shall be composed of 12 members appointed from among private United States citizens with appropriate and diverse experiences, expertise, and historical perspectives on veterans, military, organizational, and management matters. The members shall be appointed as follows:“(A) Four shall be appointed jointly by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives.

“(B) Four shall be appointed jointly by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate.

“(C) Two shall be appointed jointly by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on National Security of the House of Representatives [now Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives].

“(D) Two shall be appointed jointly by the chairman and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.


“(2)(A) One member of the Commission appointed under each of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) shall be a representative of a veterans service organization.

“(B) To the maximum extent practicable, the individuals appointed under paragraph (1) as members of the Commission shall be veterans.

“(C) Not more than seven of the members of the Commission may be members of the same political party.


“(3) In addition to the members appointed under paragraph (1), the following shall be nonvoting members of the Commission:“(A) The Under Secretary for Benefits of the Department of Veterans Affairs.

“(B) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management and Personnel.

“(C) The Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Training.


“(4) The appointments of members of the Commission shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be made after consultation with representatives of veterans service organizations.

“(5) The appointments of the members of the Commission shall be made not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 9, 1996].


“(c) Period of Appointment; Vacancies.—Members shall be appointed for the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.

“(d) Initial Meeting.—Not later than 30 days after the date on which all members of the Commission have been appointed under subsection (b)(1), the Commission shall hold its first meeting.

“(e) Quorum.—A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number may hold hearings.

“(f) Chairman and Vice Chairman.—The Commission shall select a chairman and vice chairman from among its members.

“(g) Meetings.—The Commission shall meet at the call of the chairman of the Commission.

“(h) Panels.—The Commission may establish panels composed of less than the full membership of the Commission for the purpose of carrying out the Commission’s duties. The actions of such panels shall be subject to the review and control of the Commission. Any findings and determinations made by such a panel shall not be considered the findings and determinations of the Commission unless approved by the Commission.

“(i) Authority of Individuals To Act for Commission.—Any member or agent of the Commission may, if authorized by the Commission, take any action which the Commission is authorized to take under this title.

