§ 16. Research laboratory for utilization of anthracite coal; establishment of advisory committee; composition; functions; appointment
The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the United States Bureau of Mines, may, in his discretion, create and establish an advisory committee composed of not more than six members to exercise consultative functions, when required by the Secretary, in connection with the administration of sections 13 to 16 of this title. The said committee shall be composed of representatives of anthracite coal mine owners, of representatives of anthracite coal mine workers and the public in equal number. The members of said committee shall be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior without regard to the civil-service laws.
(Dec. 18, 1942, ch. 764, § 4, 56 Stat. 1057.)


Transfer of Functions
For provisions relating to closure and transfer of functions of the United States Bureau of Mines, see note set out under section 1 of this title.

Termination of Advisory CommitteesAdvisory committees in existence on Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period following Jan. 5, 1973, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. Advisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See section 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


