§ 951a. Health, Safety, and Mining Technology Research program(a) Health, Safety, and Mining Technology Research Plan(1) Every 5 years, the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Mines (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Director”), shall develop a Plan for Health, Safety, and Mining Technology Research (hereinafter in this subsection referred to as the “Plan”).

(2) The Plan shall identify the goals and objectives of the Health, Safety, and Mining Technology program of the Bureau of Mines, and shall guide research and technology development under such program, over each 5-year period.

(3) In preparing the proposed Plan referred to in paragraph (1), the Director shall solicit suggestions, comments and proposals for research and technology development projects from the mining industry, labor, academia and other concerned groups and individuals.


(b) Technical amendmentFor the purposes of section 951(b) of this title, as amended, activities in the field of coal or other mine health under such section shall also be carried out by the Secretary of the Interior acting through the Director of the Bureau of Mines. Nothing in this subsection is intended to preclude or duplicate the ongoing research activities of the Bureau of Mines on health hazards safety technology or research conducted by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health on coal mine safety and health effects.


(Pub. L. 102–486, title XXV, § 2512, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3111.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, and not as part of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 which comprises this chapter.


Change of Name
Bureau of Mines redesignated United States Bureau of Mines by section 10(b) of Pub. L. 102–285, set out as a note under section 1 of this title. For provisions relating to closure and transfer of functions of the United States Bureau of Mines, see Transfer of Functions note set out under section 1 of this title.


