“SEC. 4. DATA STANDARDS.“(a) In General.—“(1) Establishment of standards.—The Secretary and the Director, in consultation with the heads of Federal agencies, shall establish Government-wide financial data standards for any Federal funds made available to or expended by Federal agencies and entities receiving Federal funds.

“(2) Data elements.—The financial data standards established under paragraph (1) shall include common data elements for financial and payment information required to be reported by Federal agencies and entities receiving Federal funds.


“(b) Requirements.—The data standards established under subsection (a) shall, to the extent reasonable and practicable—“(1) incorporate widely accepted common data elements, such as those developed and maintained by—“(A) an international voluntary consensus standards body;

“(B) Federal agencies with authority over contracting and financial assistance; and

“(C) accounting standards organizations;


“(2) incorporate a widely accepted, nonproprietary, searchable, platform-independent computer-readable format;

“(3) include unique identifiers for Federal awards and entities receiving Federal awards that can be consistently applied Government-wide;

“(4) be consistent with and implement applicable accounting principles;

“(5) be capable of being continually upgraded as necessary;

“(6) produce consistent and comparable data, including across program activities; and

“(7) establish a standard method of conveying the reporting period, reporting entity, unit of measure, and other associated attributes.


“(c) Deadlines.—“(1) Guidance.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the Digital Accountability and Transparency Act of 2014 [May 9, 2014], the Director and the Secretary shall issue guidance to Federal agencies on the data standards established under subsection (a).

“(2) Agencies.—“(A) In general.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), not later than 2 years after the date on which the guidance under paragraph (1) is issued, each Federal agency shall report financial and payment information data in accordance with the data standards established under subsection (a).

“(B) Noninterference with auditability of department of defense financial statements.—“(i) In general.—Upon request by the Secretary of Defense, the Director may grant an extension of the deadline under subparagraph (A) to the Department of Defense for a period of not more than 6 months to report financial and payment information data in accordance with the data standards established under subsection (a).

“(ii) Limitation.—The Director may not grant more than 3 extensions to the Secretary of Defense under clause (i).

“(iii) Notification.—The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall notify the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives of—     “(I) each grant of an extension under clause (i); and

     “(II) the reasons for granting such an extension.




“(3) Website.—Not later than 3 years after the date on which the guidance under paragraph (1) is issued, the Director and the Secretary shall ensure that the data standards established under subsection (a) are applied to the data made available on the website established under section 2.


“(d) Consultation.—The Director and the Secretary shall consult with public and private stakeholders in establishing data standards under this section.

