“SEC. 5. ESTABLISHMENT OF WHITE HOUSE COMMISSION ON THE NATIONAL MOMENT OF REMEMBRANCE.“(a) Establishment.—There is established a commission to be known as the ‘White House Commission on the National Moment of Remembrance’.

“(b) Membership.—“(1) Composition.—The Commission shall be composed of the following:“(A) 4 members appointed by the President, including at least 1 representative of tribal governments.

“(B) The Secretary of Defense (or a designee).

“(C) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs (or a designee).

“(D) The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution (or a designee).

“(E) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management (or a designee).

“(F) The Administrator of General Services (or a designee).

“(G) The Secretary of Transportation (or a designee).

“(H) The Secretary of Education (or a designee).

“(I) The Secretary of the Interior (or a designee).

“(J) The Executive Director of the President’s Commission on White House Fellows (or a designee).

“(K) The Secretary of the Army (or a designee).

“(L) The Secretary of the Navy (or a designee).

“(M) The Secretary of the Air Force (or a designee).

“(N) The Commandant of the Marine Corps (or a designee).

“(O) The Commandant of the Coast Guard (or a designee).

“(P) The Executive Director and White House Liaison (or a designee).

“(Q) The Chief of Staff of the Army.

“(R) The Chief of Naval Operations.

“(S) The Chief of Staff of the Air Force.

“(T) Any other member, the appointment of whom the Commission determines is necessary to carry out this Act.


“(2) Nonvoting members.—The members appointed to the Commission under subparagraphs (K) through (T) of paragraph (1) shall be nonvoting members.

“(3) Date of appointments.—All appointments under paragraph (1) shall be made not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 28, 2000].


“(c) Term; Vacancies.—“(1) Term.—A member shall be appointed to the Commission for the life of the Commission.

“(2) Vacancies.—A vacancy on the Commission—“(A) shall not affect the powers of the Commission; and

“(B) shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.



“(d) Initial Meeting.—Not later than 30 days after the date specified in subsection (b)(3) for completion of appointments, the Commission shall hold the initial meeting of the Commission.

“(e) Meetings.—The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairperson.

“(f) Quorum.—A majority of the voting members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.

“(g) Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.—The Commission shall select a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson from among the members of the Commission at the initial meeting of the Commission.

