§ 579b. Deauthorization of inactive projects(a) PurposesThe purposes of this section are—(1) to identify $18,000,000,000 in water resources development projects authorized by Congress that are no longer viable for construction due to—(A) a lack of local support;

(B) a lack of available Federal or non-Federal resources; or

(C) an authorizing purpose that is no longer relevant or feasible;


(2) to create an expedited and definitive process to deauthorize water resources development projects that are no longer viable for construction; and

(3) to allow the continued authorization of water resources development projects that are viable for construction.


(b) Omitted

(c) Interim deauthorization list(1) In generalThe Secretary shall develop an interim deauthorization list that identifies each water resources development project, or separable element of a project, authorized for construction before November 8, 2007, for which—(A) construction was not initiated before June 10, 2014; or

(B) construction was initiated before June 10, 2014, but for which no funds, Federal or non-Federal, were obligated for construction of the project or separable element of the project during the current fiscal year or any of the 6 preceding fiscal years.


(2) Special rule for projects receiving funds for post-authorization studyA project or separable element of a project may not be identified on the interim deauthorization list, or the final deauthorization list developed under subsection (d), if the project or separable element received funding for a post-authorization study during the current fiscal year or any of the 6 preceding fiscal years.


(3) Public comment and consultation(A) In generalThe Secretary shall solicit comments from the public and the Governors of each applicable State on the interim deauthorization list developed under paragraph (1).


(B) Comment periodThe public comment period shall be 90 days.



(4) Submission to Congress; publicationNot later than 90 days after the date of submission of the list required by section 579a(b)(4)(A) of this title (as added by subsection (b)), the Secretary shall—(A) submit the interim deauthorization list to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives; and

(B) publish the interim deauthorization list in the Federal Register.



(d) Final deauthorization list(1) In generalThe Secretary shall develop a final deauthorization list of each water resources development project, or separable element of a project, described in subsection (c)(1) that is identified pursuant to this subsection.


(2) Deauthorization amount(A) In generalThe Secretary shall include on the final deauthorization list projects and separable elements of projects that have, in the aggregate, an estimated Federal cost to complete that is at least $18,000,000,000.


(B) Determination of Federal cost to completeFor purposes of subparagraph (A), the Federal cost to complete shall take into account any allowances authorized by section 2280 of this title, as applied to the most recent project schedule and cost estimate.



(3) Identification of projects(A) Sequencing of projects(i) In generalThe Secretary shall identify projects and separable elements of projects for inclusion on the final deauthorization list according to the order in which the projects and separable elements of the projects were authorized, beginning with the earliest authorized projects and separable elements of projects and ending once the last project or separable element of a project necessary to meet the aggregate amount under paragraph (2) is identified.


(ii) Factors to considerThe Secretary may identify projects and separable elements of projects in an order other than that established by clause (i) if the Secretary determines, on a case-by-case basis, that a project or separable element of a project is critical for interests of the United States, based on the possible impact of the project or separable element of the project on public health and safety, the national economy, or the environment.


(iii) Consideration of public commentsIn making determinations under clause (ii), the Secretary shall consider any comments received under subsection (c)(3).



(B) AppendixThe Secretary shall include as part of the final deauthorization list an appendix that—(i) identifies each project or separable element of a project on the interim deauthorization list developed under subsection (c) that is not included on the final deauthorization list; and

(ii) describes the reasons why the project or separable element is not included.



(4) Submission to Congress; publicationNot later than 120 days after the date on which the public comment period under subsection (c)(3) expires, the Secretary shall—(A) submit the final deauthorization list and the appendix to the final deauthorization list to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives; and

(B) publish the final deauthorization list and the appendix to the final deauthorization list in the Federal Register.



(e) Deauthorization; congressional review(1) In generalAfter the expiration of the 180-day period beginning on the date of submission of the final deauthorization report under subsection (d), a project or separable element of a project identified in the report is hereby deauthorized, unless Congress passes a joint resolution disapproving the final deauthorization report prior to the end of such period.


(2) Non-Federal contributions(A) In generalA project or separable element of a project identified in the final deauthorization report under subsection (d) shall not be deauthorized under this subsection if, before the expiration of the 180-day period referred to in paragraph (1), the non-Federal interest for the project or separable element of the project provides sufficient funds to complete the project or separable element of the project.


(B) Treatment of projectsNotwithstanding subparagraph (A), each project and separable element of a project identified in the final deauthorization report shall be treated as deauthorized for purposes of the aggregate deauthorization amount specified in subsection (d)(2).




(f) General provisions(1) DefinitionsIn this section:(A) Post-authorization studyThe term “post-authorization study” means—(i) a feasibility report developed under section 2282 of this title;

(ii) a feasibility study, as defined in section 2215(d) of this title; or

(iii) a review conducted under section 549a of this title, including an initial appraisal that—(I) demonstrates a Federal interest; and

(II) requires additional analysis for the project or separable element.



(B) Water resources development projectThe term “water resources development project” includes an environmental infrastructure assistance project or program of the Corps of Engineers.



(2) Treatment of project modificationsFor purposes of this section, if an authorized water resources development project or separable element of the project has been modified by an Act of Congress, the date of the authorization of the project or separable element shall be deemed to be the date of the most recent such modification.



(Pub. L. 113–121, title VI, § 6001, June 10, 2014, 128 Stat. 1345.)

Codification
Section is comprised of section 6001 of Pub. L. 113–121. Subsec. (b) of section 6001 of Pub. L. 113–121 amended section 579a of this title.


“Secretary” Defined
Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.


