§ 59ii. Declaration of nonnavigability of a portion of the canal known as the James River and Kanawha Canal in Richmond, Virginia(a) Canal declared nonnavigableThe portion of the canal known as the James River and Kanawha Canal in Richmond, Virginia, located between the Great Ship Lock on the east and the limits of the City of Richmond on the west is hereby declared to be a nonnavigable waterway of the United States for purposes of subtitle II of title 46.


(b) Ensuring public safetyThe Secretary of Transportation shall provide such technical advice, information, and assistance as the City of Richmond, Virginia, or its designee may request to insure that the vessels operating on the waters declared nonnavigable by subsection (a) of this section are built, maintained, and operated in a manner consistent with protecting public safety.


(c) Termination of declaration(1) In generalThe Secretary of Transportation may terminate the effectiveness of the declaration made by subsection (a) of this section by publishing a determination that vessels operating on the waters declared nonnavigable by subsection (a) of this section have not been built, maintained, and operated in a manner consistent with protecting public safety.


(2) Public inputBefore making a determination under this subsection, the Secretary of Transportation shall—(A) consult with appropriate State and local government officials regarding whether such a determination is necessary to protect public safety and will serve the public interest; and

(B) provide to persons who might be adversely affected by the determination the opportunity for comment and a hearing on whether such action is necessary to protect public safety and will serve the public interest.



(Pub. L. 106–32, § 2, June 1, 1999, 113 Stat. 115.)

FindingsPub. L. 106–32, § 1, June 1, 1999, 113 Stat. 115, provided that: 
“The Congress finds the following:
“(1) The canal known as the James River and Kanawha Canal played an important part in the economic development of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the City of Richmond.

“(2) The canal ceased to operate as a functioning waterway in the conduct of commerce in the late 1800s.

“(3) Portions of the canal have been found by a Federal district court to be nonnavigable.

“(4) The restored portion of the canal will be utilized to provide entertainment and education to visitors and will play an important part in the economic development of downtown Richmond.

“(5) The restored portion of the canal will not be utilized for general public boating, and will be restricted to activities similar to those conducted on similar waters in San Antonio, Texas.

“(6) The continued classification of the canal as a navigable waterway based upon historic usage that ceased more than 100 years ago does not serve the public interest and is unnecessary to protect public safety.

“(7) Congressional action is required to clarify that the canal is no longer to be considered a navigable waterway for purposes of subtitle II of title 46, United States Code.”





