§ 26. Calumet River, Cook County, Illinois, old channel
The portion of the old channel of the Calumet River in the northwest quarter of section thirty, township thirty-seven north, range fifteen east, of the third principal meridian, in Cook County, Illinois, which lies outside of the new channel lines as established by the United States and shown on “Map of the Calumet River, Illinois, from Lake Michigan to Calumet Lake, to accompany report of W. G. Ewing, United States attorney to the Attorney-General, respecting cession of right of way for improvement of said river under Act of Congress approved July fifth, eighteen hundred and eighty-four,” is hereby abandoned as navigable water from and after the time that a navigable channel shall be cut through said quarter section within the new channel lines of the river as shown on the said map.
The portion of the old channel of the Calumet River in the north quarter of fractional section 7, township 37 north, range 15 east, of the third principal meridian, south of the Indian boundary line, in Cook County, Illinois, which lies outside of the new channel lines as established by the United States and shown on “map of the Calumet River, Illinois, from Lake Michigan to Calumet Lake, to accompany report of W. G. Ewing, United States attorney, to the Attorney General, respecting cession of right of way for improvement of said river, under Act of Congress approved July 5, 1884”, is abandoned as navigable water.
(Apr. 21, 1904, ch. 1409, 33 Stat. 239, 240; Feb. 27, 1915, ch. 68, 38 Stat. 817.)


References in TextAct of Congress approved July 5, 1884, referred to in text, is act July 5, 1884, ch. 229, 23 Stat. 143, which provided in part for the appropriation of $50,000 for the continuing improvement of the Calumet River, provided that no part of such appropriation be expended until the right of way should have been conveyed to the United States, free from expense, and the United States released from liability to adjacent property owners, to the satisfaction of the Secretary of War.


