§ 1361. Administration(a) Authority of Administrator to prescribe regulationsThe Administrator is authorized to prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out his functions under this chapter.


(b) Utilization of other agency officers and employeesThe Administrator, with the consent of the head of any other agency of the United States, may utilize such officers and employees of such agency as may be found necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes of this chapter.


(c) RecordkeepingEach recipient of financial assistance under this chapter shall keep such records as the Administrator shall prescribe, including records which fully disclose the amount and disposition by such recipient of the proceeds of such assistance, the total cost of the project or undertaking in connection with which such assistance is given or used, and the amount of that portion of the cost of the project or undertaking supplied by other sources, and such other records as will facilitate effective audit.


(d) AuditThe Administrator and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have access, for the purpose of audit and examination, to any books, documents, papers, and records of the recipients that are pertinent to the grants received under this chapter. For the purpose of carrying out audits and examinations with respect to recipients of Federal assistance under this chapter, the Administrator is authorized to enter into noncompetitive procurement contracts with independent State audit organizations, consistent with chapter 75 of title 31. Such contracts may only be entered into to the extent and in such amounts as may be provided in advance in appropriation Acts.


(e) Awards for outstanding technological achievement or innovative processes, methods, or devices in waste treatment and pollution abatement programs(1) It is the purpose of this subsection to authorize a program which will provide official recognition by the United States Government to those industrial organizations and political subdivisions of States which during the preceding year demonstrated an outstanding technological achievement or an innovative process, method, or device in their waste treatment and pollution abatement programs. The Administrator shall, in consultation with the appropriate State water pollution control agencies, establish regulations under which such recognition may be applied for and granted, except that no applicant shall be eligible for an award under this subsection if such applicant is not in total compliance with all applicable water quality requirements under this chapter, or otherwise does not have a satisfactory record with respect to environmental quality.

(2) The Administrator shall award a certificate or plaque of suitable design to each industrial organization or political subdivision which qualifies for such recognition under regulations established under this subsection.

(3) The President of the United States, the Governor of the appropriate State, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall be notified of the award by the Administrator and the awarding of such recognition shall be published in the Federal Register.


(f) Detail of Environmental Protection Agency personnel to State water pollution control agenciesUpon the request of a State water pollution control agency, personnel of the Environmental Protection Agency may be detailed to such agency for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter.


(June 30, 1948, ch. 758, title V, § 501, as added Pub. L. 92–500, § 2, Oct. 18, 1972, 86 Stat. 885; amended Pub. L. 100–4, title V, § 501, Feb. 4, 1987, 101 Stat. 75.)

Amendments1987—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 100–4 inserted provision at end authorizing Administrator to enter into noncompetitive procurement contracts with independent State audit organizations, consistent with chapter 75 of title 31, but only to extent and in such amounts as provided in advance in appropriations Acts.

Applicability of Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure RulePub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1049, June 10, 2014, 128 Stat. 1257, provided that:
“(a) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Administrator.—The term ‘Administrator’ means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

“(2) Farm.—The term ‘farm’ has the meaning given the term in section 112.2 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).

“(3) Gallon.—The term ‘gallon’ means a United States gallon.

“(4) Oil.—The term ‘oil’ has the meaning given the term in section 112.2 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).

“(5) Oil discharge.—The term ‘oil discharge’ has the meaning given the term ‘discharge’ in section 112.2 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).

“(6) Reportable oil discharge history.—“(A) In general.—Subject to subparagraph (B), the term ‘reportable oil discharge history’ means a single oil discharge, as described in section 112.1(b) of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (including successor regulations), that exceeds 1,000 gallons or 2 oil discharges, as described in section 112.1(b) of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (including successor regulations), that each exceed 42 gallons within any 12-month period—“(i) in the 3 years prior to the certification date of the Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure plan (as described in section 112.3 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (including successor regulations); or

“(ii) since becoming subject to part 112 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, if the facility has been in operation for less than 3 years.


“(B) Exclusions.—The term ‘reportable oil discharge history’ does not include an oil discharge, as described in section 112.1(b) of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (including successor regulations), that is the result of a natural disaster, an act of war, or terrorism.


“(7) Spill prevention, control, and countermeasure rule.—The term ‘Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure rule’ means the regulation, including amendments, promulgated by the Administrator under part 112 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).


“(b) Certification.—In implementing the Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure rule with respect to any farm, the Administrator shall—“(1) require certification by a professional engineer for a farm with—“(A) an individual tank with an aboveground storage capacity greater than 10,000 gallons;

“(B) an aggregate aboveground storage capacity greater than or equal to 20,000 gallons; or

“(C) a reportable oil discharge history; or


“(2) allow certification by the owner or operator of the farm (via self-certification) for a farm with—“(A) an aggregate aboveground storage capacity less than 20,000 gallons and greater than the lesser of—“(i) 6,000 gallons; and

“(ii) the adjustment quantity established under subsection (d)(2); and


“(B) no reportable oil discharge history; and


“(3) not require compliance with the rule by any farm—“(A) with an aggregate aboveground storage capacity greater than 2,500 gallons and less than the lesser of—“(i) 6,000 gallons; and

“(ii) the adjustment quantity established under subsection (d)(2); and


“(B) no reportable oil discharge history; and


“(4) not require compliance with the rule by any farm with an aggregate aboveground storage capacity of less than 2,500 gallons.


“(c) Calculation of Aggregate Aboveground Storage Capacity.—For purposes of subsection (b), the aggregate aboveground storage capacity of a farm excludes—“(1) all containers on separate parcels that have a capacity that is 1,000 gallons or less; and

“(2) all containers holding animal feed ingredients approved for use in livestock feed by the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.


“(d) Study.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [June 10, 2014], the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall conduct a study to determine the appropriate exemption under paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (b), which shall be not more than 6,000 gallons and not less than 2,500 gallons, based on a significant risk of discharge to water.

“(2) Adjustment.—Not later than 18 months after the date on which the study described in paragraph (1) is complete, the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall promulgate a rule to adjust the exemption levels described in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (b) in accordance with the study.”





Environmental Court Feasibility StudyPub. L. 92–500, § 9, Oct. 18, 1972, 86 Stat. 899, authorized the President, acting through the Attorney General, to study the feasibility of establishing a separate court or court system with jurisdiction over environmental matters and required him to report the results of his study, together with his recommendations, to Congress not later than one year after Oct. 18, 1972.

Transfer of Public Health Service OfficersPub. L. 89–234, § 2(b)–(k), Oct. 2, 1965, 79 Stat. 904, 905, authorized the transfer of certain commissioned officers of the Public Health Service to classified positions in the Federal Water Pollution Control Administration, now the Environmental Protection Agency, where such transfer was requested within six months after the establishment of the Administration and made certain administrative provisions relating to pension and retirement rights of the transferees, sick leave benefits, group life insurance, and certain other miscellaneous provisions.


