§ 6507. Congressional review of grant programs(a) The committees of Congress having jurisdiction over a grant program authorized by a law of the United States without a specified expiration date for the program shall study the program. The committees may conduct studies separately or jointly and shall report the results of their findings to their respective Houses of Congress not later than the end of each period specified in subsection (b) of this section. The committees shall give special attention to—(1) the extent to which the purposes of the grants have been met;

(2) the extent to which the objective of the program can be carried on without further assistance;

(3) whether a change in the purpose, direction, or administration of the original program, or in procedures and requirements applicable to the program, should be made; and

(4) the extent to which the program is adequate to meet the growing and changing needs that it was designed to support.


(b)(1) A study under subsection (a) of this section of a grant program authorized by a law of the United States enacted before October 16, 1968, shall be conducted before the end of each 4th calendar year after the year during which a study of the program was last conducted under this section.

(2) A study under subsection (a) of this section of a grant program authorized by a law of the United States enacted after October 16, 1968, shall be conducted before the end of the 4th calendar year after the year of enactment of the law and before the end of each 4th calendar year thereafter.


(Pub. L. 97–258, Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1009.)











Historical and Revision Notes


Revised SectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


6507(a)42:4241(a).Oct. 16, 1968, Pub. L. 90–577, § 601, 82 Stat. 1106.
6507(b)42:4241(b).


In the section, the words “law of the United States” are substituted for “Act of Congress” for clarity. The word “grants” is substituted for “grants-in-aid”, and the words “grant program” are substituted for “grant-in-aid program”, for consistency in the chapter.
In subsection (a), before clause (1), the words “grant program” are substituted for “program under which such grants-in-aid are made” for consistency in the chapter and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “committees of Congress” are substituted for “Committee of the Senate and the House of Representatives” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code. The words “The committees may conduct” are added for clarity. The word “report” is substituted for “advise” for clarity. In clause (2), the word “assistance” is substituted for “financial assistance from the United States” because of the definition in section 6501(1) of the revised title.
In subsection (b), the words “prior to the expiration of the fourth calendar year beginning after October 16, 1968, and thereafter” are omitted as executed.


