“SEC. 803. EFFECTIVE DATE, APPLICABILITY, AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISION.“(a) Effective Date.—Except as otherwise provided in this title (including this section), the provisions of this title shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 8, 2004].

“(b) Applicability.—“(1)(A) Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), the provisions of section 801 shall apply to all patents, whenever granted, and to all patent applications pending on or filed after the effective date set forth in subsection (a) of this section.

“(B)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), subsections (a)(1) and (3) and (d)(1) of section 41 of title 35, United States Code, as administered as provided in this title, shall apply only to—“(I) applications for patents filed under section 111 of title 35, United States Code, on or after the effective date set forth in subsection (a) of this section, and

“(II) international applications entering the national stage under section 371 of title 35, United States Code, for which the basic national fee specified in section 41 of title 35, United States Code, was not paid before the effective date set forth in subsection (a) of this section.


“(ii) Section 41(a)(1)(D) of title 35, United States Code, as administered as provided in this title, shall apply only to applications for patent filed under section 111(b) of title 35, United States Code, before, on, or after the effective date set forth in subsection (a) of this section in which the filing fee specified in section 41 of title 35, United States Code, was not paid before the effective date set forth in subsection (a) of this section.


“(C) Section 41(a)(2) of title 35, United States Code, as administered as provided in this title, shall apply only to the extent that the number of excess claims, after giving effect to any cancellation of claims, is in excess of the number of claims for which the excess claims fee specified in section 41 of title 35, United States Code, was paid before the effective date set forth in subsection (a) of this section.


“(2) The provisions of section 802 shall apply to all applications for the registration of a trademark filed or amended on or after the effective date set forth in subsection (a) of this section.


“(c) Transitional Provisions.—“(1) Search fees.—During fiscal years 2005, 2006, and 2007, the Director shall charge—“(A) for the search of each application for an original patent, except for design, plant, provisional, or international application, $500;

“(B) for the search of each application for an original design patent, $100;

“(C) for the search of each application for an original plant patent, $300;

“(D) for the search of the national stage of each international application, $500; and

“(E) for the search of each application for the reissue of a patent, $500.


“(2) Timing of fees.—The provisions of section 111(a)(3) of title 35, United States Code, relating to the payment of the fee for filing the application shall apply to the payment of the fee specified in paragraph (1) with respect to an application filed under section 111(a) of title 35, United States Code. The provisions of section 371(d) of title 35, United States Code, relating to the payment of the national fee shall apply to the payment of the fee specified in paragraph (1) with respect to an international application.


