“SEC. 9. REMEMBRANCE ALLIANCE.“(a) Establishment.—There is established the Remembrance Alliance.

“(b) Composition.—“(1) Members.—The Alliance shall be composed of individuals, appointed by the Commission, that are representatives or members of—“(A) the print, broadcast, or other media industry;

“(B) the national sports community;

“(C) the recreation industry;

“(D) the entertainment industry;

“(E) the retail industry;

“(F) the food industry;

“(G) the health care industry;

“(H) the transportation industry;

“(I) the education community;

“(J) national veterans organizations; and

“(K) families that have lost loved ones in combat.


“(2) Honorary members.—On recommendation of the Alliance, the Commission may appoint honorary, nonvoting members to the Alliance.

“(3) Vacancies.—Any vacancy in the membership of the Alliance shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.

“(4) Meetings.—The Alliance shall conduct meetings in accordance with procedures approved by the Commission.


“(c) Term.—The Commission may fix the term of appointment for members of the Alliance.

“(d) Duties.—The Alliance shall assist the Commission in carrying out this Act by—“(1) planning, organizing, and implementing an annual White House Conference on the National Moment of Remembrance and other similar events;

“(2) promoting the observance of Memorial Day and the National Moment of Remembrance through appropriate means, subject to any guidelines developed by the Commission;

“(3) establishing necessary incentives for Federal, State, and local governments and private sector entities to sponsor and participate in programs initiated by the Commission or the Alliance;

“(4) evaluating the effectiveness of efforts by the Commission and the Alliance in carrying out this Act; and

“(5) carrying out such other duties as are assigned by the Commission.


“(e) Alliance Personnel Matters.—“(1) Compensation of members.—A member of the Alliance shall serve without compensation for the services of the member to the Alliance.

“(2) Travel expenses.—A member of the Alliance may be allowed reimbursement for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for an employee of an agency under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from the home or regular place of business of the member in the performance of the duties of the Commission.


“(f) Termination.—The Alliance shall terminate on the date of termination of the Commission.

