§ 867. Grounding of equipment(a) Metallic enclosed power conductors; metallic frames and other equipment; methodsAll metallic sheaths, armors, and conduits enclosing power conductors shall be electrically continuous throughout and shall be grounded by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary. Metallic frames, casings, and other enclosures of electric equipment that can become “alive” through failure of insulation or by contact with energized parts shall be grounded by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary. Methods other than grounding which provide no less effective protection may be permitted by the Secretary or his authorized representative.


(b) Frames of offtrack direct current machines; enclosures of related detached componentsThe frames of all offtrack direct current machines and the enclosures of related detached components shall be effectively grounded, or otherwise maintained at no less safe voltages, by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.


(c) Stationary high-voltage equipment powered by underground delta systemsThe frames of all stationary high-voltage equipment receiving power from ungrounded delta systems shall be grounded by methods approved by an authorized representative of the Secretary.


(d) Repairs of high-voltage lines; exceptionsHigh-voltage lines, both on the surface and underground, shall be deenergized and grounded before work is performed on them, except that repairs may be permitted, in the case of energized surface high-voltage lines, if such repairs are made by a qualified person in accordance with procedures and safeguards, including, but not limited to a requirement that the operator of such mine provide, test, and maintain protective devices in making such repairs, to be prescribed by the Secretary prior to the operative date of this subchapter.


(e) Deenergizing of underground power circuits on idle days; exceptionsWhen not in use, power circuits underground shall be deenergized on idle days and idle shifts, except that rectifiers and transformers may remain energized.


(Pub. L. 91–173, title III, § 307, Dec. 30, 1969, 83 Stat. 780.)


References in TextFor the operative date of this subchapter, referred to in subsec. (d), see section 509 of Pub. L. 91–173, set out as an Effective Date note under section 801 of this title.


