§ 2341a. Prioritization(a) Prioritization of hurricane and storm damage risk reduction efforts(1) PriorityFor authorized projects and ongoing feasibility studies with a primary purpose of hurricane and storm damage risk reduction, the Secretary shall give funding priority to projects and ongoing studies that—(A) address an imminent threat to life and property;

(B) prevent storm surge from inundating populated areas;

(C) prevent the loss of coastal wetlands that help reduce the impact of storm surge;

(D) protect emergency hurricane evacuation routes or shelters;

(E) prevent adverse impacts to publicly owned or funded infrastructure and assets;

(F) minimize disaster relief costs to the Federal Government; and

(G) address hurricane and storm damage risk reduction in an area for which the President declared a major disaster in accordance with section 5170 of title 42.


(2) Expedited consideration of currently authorized projectsNot later than 180 days after June 10, 2014, the Secretary shall—(A) submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a list of all—(i) ongoing hurricane and storm damage reduction feasibility studies that have signed feasibility cost-share agreements and have received Federal funds since 2009; and

(ii) authorized hurricane and storm damage reduction projects that—(I) have been authorized for more than 20 years but are less than 75 percent complete; or

(II) are undergoing a post-authorization change report, general reevaluation report, or limited reevaluation report;



(B) identify those projects on the list required under subparagraph (A) that meet the criteria described in paragraph (1); and

(C) provide a plan for expeditiously completing the projects identified under subparagraph (B), subject to available funding.



(b) Prioritization of ecosystem restoration effortsFor authorized projects with a primary purpose of ecosystem restoration, the Secretary shall give funding priority to projects—(1) that—(A) address an identified threat to public health, safety, or welfare;

(B) preserve or restore ecosystems of national significance; or

(C) preserve or restore habitats of importance for federally protected species, including migratory birds; and


(2) for which the restoration activities will contribute to other ongoing or planned Federal, State, or local restoration initiatives.


(Pub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1011, June 10, 2014, 128 Stat. 1217.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.


“Secretary” Defined
Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.


