§ 3806. Collection of civil penalties and assessments(a) The Attorney General shall be responsible for judicial enforcement of any civil penalty or assessment imposed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.

(b) Any penalty or assessment imposed in a determination which has become final pursuant to this chapter may be recovered in a civil action brought by the Attorney General. In any such action, no matter that was raised or that could have been raised in a hearing conducted under section 3803(f) of this title or pursuant to judicial review under section 3805 of this title may be raised as a defense, and the determination of liability and the determination of amounts of penalties and assessments shall not be subject to review.

(c) The district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction of any action commenced by the United States under subsection (b) of this section.

(d) Any action under subsection (b) of this section may, without regard to venue requirements, be joined and consolidated with or asserted as a counterclaim, cross-claim, or setoff by the United States in any other civil action which includes as parties the United States and the person against whom such action may be brought.

(e) The United States Court of Federal Claims shall have jurisdiction of any action under subsection (b) of this section to recover any penalty or assessment if the cause of action is asserted by the United States as a counterclaim in a matter pending in such court.

(f) The Attorney General shall have exclusive authority to compromise or settle any penalty or assessment the determination of which is the subject of a pending petition pursuant to section 3805 of this title or a pending action to recover such penalty or assessment pursuant to this section.

(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, any amount of penalty or assessment collected under this chapter shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States.

(2)(A) Any amount of a penalty or assessment imposed by the United States Postal Service under this chapter shall be deposited in the Postal Service Fund established by section 2003 of title 39.

(B) Any amount of a penalty or assessment imposed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under this chapter with respect to a claim or statement made in connection with old age and survivors benefits under title II of the Social Security Act shall be deposited in the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund.

(C) Any amount of a penalty or assessment imposed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under this chapter with respect to a claim or statement made in connection with disability benefits under title II of the Social Security Act shall be deposited in the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund.

(D) Any amount of a penalty or assessment imposed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under this chapter with respect to a claim or statement made in connection with benefits under part A of title XVIII of the Social Security Act shall be deposited in the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund.

(E) Any amount of a penalty or assessment imposed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under this chapter with respect to a claim or statement made in connection with benefits under part B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act shall be deposited in the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund.



(Added Pub. L. 99–509, title VI, § 6103(a), Oct. 21, 1986, 100 Stat. 1945; amended Pub. L. 102–572, title IX, § 902(b)(1), Oct. 29, 1992, 106 Stat. 4516.)


References in TextThe Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (g)(2)(B) to (E), is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620, as amended. Title II and parts A and B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act are classified generally to subchapter II (§ 401 et seq.) and parts A (§ 1395c et seq.) and B (§ 1395j et seq.) of subchapter XVIII, respectively, of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1305 of Title 42 and Tables.

Amendments1992—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 102–572 substituted “United States Court of Federal Claims” for “United States Claims Court”.

Effective Date of 1992 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 102–572 effective Oct. 29, 1992, see section 911 of Pub. L. 102–572, set out as a note under section 171 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


