“SEC. 8. COMMISSION PERSONNEL MATTERS.“(a) Compensation of Members.—“(1) Non-federal employees.—A member of the Commission who is not an officer or employee of the Federal Government may be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Commission.

“(2) Federal employees.—A member of the Commission who is an officer or employee of the Federal Government shall serve without compensation in addition to the compensation received for the services of the member as an officer or employee of the Federal Government.


“(b) Travel Expenses.—A member of the Commission may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for an employee of an agency under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from the home or regular place of business of the member in the performance of the duties of the Commission.

“(c) Staff.—“(1) In general.—The Chairperson of the Commission or the Executive Director and White House Liaison may, without regard to the civil service laws (including regulations), appoint and terminate such additional personnel as are necessary to enable the Commission to perform the duties of the Commission.

“(2) Compensation.—“(A) In general.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Chairperson of the Commission may fix the compensation of the Executive Director and White House Liaison and other personnel without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to classification of positions and General Schedule pay rates.

“(B) Maximum rate of pay.—The rate of pay for the Executive Director and White House Liaison and other personnel shall not exceed the rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Commission.



“(d) Detail of Federal Government Employees.—“(1) In general.—In addition to the details under paragraph (2), on request of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson, or the Executive Director and White House Liaison, an employee of the Federal Government may be detailed to the Commission without reimbursement.

“(2) Detail of specific employees.—“(A) Military details.—“(i) Army; air force.—The Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Air Force shall each detail a commissioned officer above the grade of captain to assist the Commission in carrying out this Act.

“(ii) Navy.—The Secretary of the Navy shall detail a commissioned officer of the Navy above the grade of lieutenant and a commissioned officer of the Marine Corps above the grade of captain to assist the Commission in carrying out this Act.


“(B) Veterans affairs; education.—The Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Education shall each detail an officer or employee compensated above the level of GS–12 in accordance with subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code to assist the Commission in carrying out this Act.


“(3) Civil service status.—The detail of any officer or employee under this subsection shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.


“(e) Procurement of Temporary and Intermittent Services.—The Chairperson of the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services in accordance with section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals that do not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of that title.

“(f) Cooperative Agreements.—“(1) In general.—The Commission may enter into a cooperative agreement with another entity, including any Federal agency, State or local government, or private entity, under which the entity may assist the Commission in—“(A) carrying out the duties of the Commission under this Act; and

“(B) contributing to public awareness of and interest in Memorial Day and the National Moment of Remembrance.


“(2) Administrative support services.—On the request of the Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, any administrative support services and any property, equipment, or office space that the Commission determines to be necessary to carry out this Act.


“(g) Support From Nonprofit Sector.—The Commission may accept program support from nonprofit organizations.

