“SEC. 7. POWERS.“(a) Hearings.—“(1) In general.—The Commission may hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the Commission considers advisable to carry out this Act.

“(2) Public participation.—The Commission shall provide for reasonable public participation in matters before the Commission.


“(b) Information From Federal Agencies.—“(1) In general.—The Commission may secure directly from a Federal agency such information as the Commission considers necessary to carry out this Act.

“(2) Provision of information.—On request of the Chairperson of the Commission, the head of the agency shall provide the information to the Commission.


“(c) Postal Services.—The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other agencies of the Federal Government.

“(d) Gifts.—The Commission may solicit, accept, use, and dispose of, without further Act of appropriation, gifts, bequests, devises, and donations of services or property.

“(e) Powers of Members and Agents.—Any member or agent of the Commission may, if authorized by the Commission, take any action that the Commission is authorized to take under this Act.

“(f) Authority To Procure and To Make Legal Agreements.—“(1) In general.—Subject to the availability of appropriations, to carry out this Act, the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson of the Commission or the Executive Director and White House Liaison may, on behalf of the Commission—“(A) procure supplies, services, and property; and

“(B) enter into contracts, leases, and other legal agreements.


“(2) Restrictions.—“(A) Who may act on behalf of commission.—Except as provided in paragraph (1), nothing in this Act authorizes a member of the Commission to procure any item or enter into any agreement described in that paragraph.

“(B) Duration of legal agreements.—A contract, lease, or other legal agreement entered into by the Commission may not extend beyond the date of termination of the Commission.


“(3) Supplies and property possessed by commission at termination.—Any supply, property, or other asset that is acquired by, and, on the date of termination of the Commission, remains in the possession of, the Commission shall be considered property of the General Services Administration.


“(g) Exclusive Right to Name, Logos, Emblems, Seals, and Marks.—“(1) In general.—The Commission may devise any logo, emblem, seal, or other designating mark that the Commission determines—“(A) to be required to carry out the duties of the Commission; or

“(B) to be appropriate for use in connection with the commemoration of Memorial Day or the National Moment of Remembrance.


“(2) Licensing.—“(A) In general.—The Commission—“(i) shall have the sole and exclusive right to use the name ‘White House Commission on the National Moment of Remembrance’ on any logo, emblem, seal, or descriptive or designating mark that the Commission lawfully adopts; and

“(ii) shall have the sole and exclusive right to allow or refuse the use by any other entity of the name ‘White House Commission on the National Moment of Remembrance’ on any logo, emblem, seal, or descriptive or designating mark.


“(B) Transfer on termination.—Unless otherwise provided by law, all rights of the Commission under subparagraph (A) shall be transferred to the Administrator of General Services on the date of termination of the Commission.


“(3) Effect on other rights.—Nothing in this subsection affects any right established or vested before the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 28, 2000].

“(4) Use of funds.—The Commission may, without further Act of appropriation, use funds received from licensing royalties under this section to carry out this Act.


