“SEC. 5605. GUIDANCE AND NOTIFICATION.“(a) Issuance of Guidance.—Not later than 3 months after the date of the enactment of this subtitle [Nov. 4, 1992], the Secretary of the Interior shall, after consulting with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, and the Commandant of the Coast Guard, issue for public comment pumpout station and waste reception facility guidance. The Secretary of the Interior shall finalize the guidance not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this subtitle. The guidance shall include—“(1) guidance regarding the types of pumpout stations and waste reception facilities that may be appropriate for construction, renovation, operation, or maintenance with amounts available under the Act of August 9, 1950 (16 U.S.C. 777a et seq. [16 U.S.C. 777 et seq.]), as amended by this subtitle, and appropriate location of the stations and facilities within a marina or boatyard;

“(2) guidance defining what constitutes adequate and reasonably available pumpout stations and waste reception facilities in boating areas;

“(3) guidance on appropriate methods for disposal of vessel sewage from pumpout stations and waste reception facilities;

“(4) guidance on appropriate connector fittings to facilitate the sanitary and expeditious discharge of sewage from vessels;

“(5) guidance on the waters most likely to be affected by the discharge of sewage from vessels; and

“(6) other information that is considered necessary to promote the establishment of pumpout facilities to reduce sewage discharges from vessels and to protect United States waters.


“(b) Notification.—Not later than one month after the guidance issued under subsection (a) is finalized, the Secretary of the Interior shall provide notification in writing to the fish and wildlife, water pollution control, and coastal zone management authorities of each State, of—“(1) the availability of amounts under the Act of August 9, 1950 (16 U.S.C. 777a et seq. [16 U.S.C. 777 et seq.]) to implement the Clean Vessel Act of 1992; and

“(2) the guidance developed under subsection (a).


