“SEC. 702. DUTIES OF COMMISSION.“(a) In General.—The Commission shall—“(1) review the adequacy and effectiveness of veterans transition assistance and benefits programs in providing assistance to members of the Armed Forces in making the transition and adjustment to civilian life;

“(2) review the allocation under law of responsibility for the administration of veterans transition assistance and benefits programs among the various departments and agencies of the Government and determine the feasibility and desirability of consolidating such administration;

“(3) evaluate proposals for improving such programs, including proposals for alternative means of providing services delivered by such programs; and

“(4) make recommendations to Congress regarding the need for improvements in such programs.


“(b) Review of Programs To Assist Members of the Armed Forces at Separation.—(1) While carrying out the general duties specified in subsection (a), the members of the Commission appointed under subparagraphs (C) and (D) of section 701(b)(1) and the member specified in subparagraph (B) of section 701(b)(3) shall review primarily the programs intended to assist members of the Armed Forces at the time of their separation from service in the Armed Forces, including programs designed to assist families of such members.

“(2) In carrying out the review, those members of the Commission shall determine the following:“(A) The adequacy of the programs referred to in paragraph (1) for their purposes.

“(B) The adequacy of the support of the Armed Forces for such programs.

“(C) The adequacy of funding levels for such programs.

“(D) The effect, if any, of the existence of such programs on military readiness.

“(E) The extent to which such programs provide members of the Armed Forces with job-search skills.

“(F) The extent to which such programs prepare such members for employment in the private sector and in the public sector.

“(G) The effectiveness of such programs in assisting such members in finding employment in the public sector upon their separation from service.

“(H) The ways in which such programs could be improved.


“(3) In carrying out the review, the Commission shall make use of previous studies which have been made of such programs.


“(c) Review of Programs To Assist Veterans.—(1) While carrying out the general duties specified in subsection (a), the members of the Commission appointed under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 701(b)(1) and the members specified in subparagraphs (A) and (C) of section 701(b)(3) shall review the following programs:“(A) Educational assistance programs.

“(B) Job counseling, job training, and job placement services programs.

“(C) Rehabilitation and training programs.

“(D) Housing loan programs.

“(E) Small business loan and small business assistance programs.

“(F) Employment and employment training programs for employment in the public sector and the private sector, including employer training programs and union apprenticeship programs.

“(G) Government personnel policies (including veterans’ preference policies) and the enforcement of such policies.

“(H) Programs that prepare the families of members of the Armed Forces for their transition from military life to civilian life and facilitate that transition.


“(2) In carrying out the review, such members of the Commission shall determine the following:“(A) The adequacy of the programs referred to in paragraph (1) for their purposes.

“(B) The adequacy of the support of the Department of Veterans Affairs for such programs.

“(C) The adequacy of funding levels for such programs.

“(D) The extent to which such programs provide veterans with job-search skills.

“(E) The extent to which such programs prepare veterans for employment in the private sector and in the public sector.

“(F) The effectiveness of such programs in assisting veterans in finding employment in the public sector upon their separation from service.

“(G) The ways in which such programs could be improved.



“(d) Reports.—(1) Not later than 90 days after the date on which all members of the Commission have been appointed under section 701(b)(1), the Commission shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs and Armed Services of the Senate and the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs and National Security of the House of Representatives [now Committees on Veterans’ Affairs and Armed Services of the House of Representatives] a report setting forth a plan for the work of the Commission. The Commission shall develop the plan in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Labor, and the heads of other appropriate departments and agencies of the Government.

“(2)(A) Not later than 18 months after the date of the first meeting of the Commission, the Commission shall submit to the committees referred to in paragraph (1), and to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Secretary of Labor, a report setting forth the activities, findings, and recommendations of the Commission, including any recommendations for legislative action and administrative action as the Commission considers appropriate.

“(B) Not later than 90 days after receiving the report referred to in subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Secretary of Labor shall jointly transmit the report to Congress, together with the Secretaries’ comments on the report.



