“SEC. 202. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.“(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the following:“(1) The American Revolution, inspired by the spirit of liberty and independence among the inhabitants of the original 13 colonies of Great Britain, was an event of global significance having a profound and lasting effect upon American Government, laws, culture, society, and values.

“(2) The years 2000 through 2008 mark the 225th anniversary of the Revolutionary War.

“(3) Every generation of American citizens should have an opportunity to understand and appreciate the continuing legacy of the American Revolution.

“(4) This 225th anniversary provides an opportunity to enhance public awareness and understanding of the impact of the American Revolution’s legacy on the lives of citizens today.

“(5) Although the National Park Service administers battlefields, historical parks, historic sites, and programs that address elements of the story of the American Revolution, there is a need to establish partnerships that link sites and programs administered by the National Park Service with those of other Federal and non-Federal entities in order to place the story of the American Revolution in the broad context of its causes, consequences, and meanings.

“(6) The story and significance of the American Revolution can best engage the American people through a national program of the National Park Service that links historic structures and sites, routes, activities, community projects, exhibits, and multimedia materials, in a manner that is both unified and flexible.


“(b) Purposes.—The purposes of this Act [probably should be “title”] are as follows:“(1) To recognize the enduring importance of the American Revolution in the lives of American citizens today.

“(2) To authorize the National Park Service to coordinate, connect, and facilitate Federal and non-Federal activities to commemorate, honor, and interpret the history of the American Revolution, its significance, and its relevance to the shape and spirit of American Government and society.


