§ 2321b. Expediting hydropower at Corps of Engineers facilities(a) PolicyCongress declares that it is the policy of the United States that—(1) the development of non-Federal hydroelectric power at Corps of Engineers civil works projects, including locks and dams, shall be given priority;

(2) Corps of Engineers approval of non-Federal hydroelectric power at Corps of Engineers civil works projects, including permitting required under section 408 of this title, shall be completed by the Corps of Engineers in a timely and consistent manner; and

(3) approval of hydropower at Corps of Engineers civil works projects shall in no way diminish the other priorities and missions of the Corps of Engineers, including authorized project purposes and habitat and environmental protection.


(b) ReportNot later than 2 years after June 10, 2014, and biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and make publicly available a report that, at a minimum, shall include—(1) a description of initiatives carried out by the Secretary to encourage the development of hydroelectric power by non-Federal entities at Corps of Engineers civil works projects;

(2) a list of all new hydroelectric power activities by non-Federal entities approved at Corps of Engineers civil works projects in that fiscal year, including the length of time the Secretary needed to approve those activities;

(3) a description of the status of each pending application from non-Federal entities for approval to develop hydroelectric power at Corps of Engineers civil works projects;

(4) a description of any benefits or impacts to the environment, recreation, or other uses associated with Corps of Engineers civil works projects at which non-Federal entities have developed hydroelectric power in the previous fiscal year; and

(5) the total annual amount of payments or other services provided to the Corps of Engineers, the Treasury, and any other Federal agency as a result of approved non-Federal hydropower projects at Corps of Engineers civil works projects.


(Pub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1008, June 10, 2014, 128 Stat. 1215.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.


“Secretary” Defined
Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.


