§ 59h–1. San Francisco, California, waterfront area(a) Area to be declared nonnavigable; public interestUnless the Secretary finds, after consultation with local and regional public officials (including local and regional public planning organizations), that the proposed projects to be undertaken within the boundaries of the portion of the San Francisco, California, waterfront area described in subsection (b) are not in the public interest, such portion is declared to be nonnavigable waters of the United States.


(b) Northern embarcadero south of Bryant StreetThe portion of the San Francisco, California, waterfront area referred to in subsection (a) is as follows: Beginning at the intersection of the northeasterly prolongation of that portion of the northwesterly line of Bryant Street lying between Beale Street and Main Street with the southwesterly line of Spear Street, which intersection lies on the line of jurisdiction of the San Francisco Port Commission; following thence southerly along said line of jurisdiction as described in the State of California Harbor and Navigation Code Section 1770, as amended in 1961, to its intersection with the southeasterly line of Townsend Street; thence northeasterly along said southeasterly line of Townsend Street, to its intersection with a line that is parallel and distant 10 feet southerly from the existing southern boundary of Pier 40 produced; thence easterly along said parallel line, to its point of intersection with the United States Government Pierhead line; thence northerly along said Pierhead line to its intersection with a line parallel with, and distant 10 feet easterly from, the existing easterly boundary line of Pier 30–32; thence northerly along said parallel line and its northerly prolongation, to a point of intersection with a line parallel with, and distant 10 feet northerly from, the existing northerly boundary of Pier 30–32; thence westerly along last said parallel line to its intersection with the United States Government Pierhead line; thence northerly along said Pierhead line, to its intersection aforementioned northwesterly line of Bryant Street produced northeasterly; thence southwesterly along said northwesterly line of Bryant Street produced to the point of beginning.


(c) Requirement that area be improvedThe declaration of nonnavigability under subsection (a) applies only to those parts of the area described in subsection (b) that are or will be bulkheaded, filled, or otherwise occupied by permanent structures and does not affect the applicability of any Federal statute or regulation applicable to such parts the day before November 8, 2007, including sections 401 and 403 of this title, section 1344 of this title, and the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).


(d) Expiration dateIf, 20 years from November 8, 2007, any area or part thereof described in subsection (b) is not bulkheaded or filled or occupied by permanent structures, including marina facilities, in accordance with the requirements set out in subsection (c), or if work in connection with any activity permitted in subsection (c) is not commenced within 5 years after issuance of such permits, then the declaration of nonnavigability for such area or part thereof shall expire.


(Pub. L. 110–114, title V, § 5052, Nov. 8, 2007, 121 Stat. 1211.)


References in TextThe National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in subsec. (c), is Pub. L. 91–190, Jan. 1, 1970, 83 Stat. 852, which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§ 4321 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4321 of Title 42 and Tables.


“Secretary” Defined
Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of Pub. L. 110–114, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.


