§ 1464. Enforcement(a) ResponsibilitySubject to the other provisions of this subsection, the Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall exercise such other enforcement responsibilities with respect to vessels subject to the provisions of this chapter as are authorized under other provisions of law and may, upon the specific request of the Administrator, assist the Administrator in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall have the exclusive responsibility for enforcement measures which affect the safety of life and property at sea. The Administrator and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may, by agreement, on a reimbursable basis or otherwise, utilize the personnel, services, equipment, including aircraft and vessels, and facilities of any other Federal agency or department, and may authorize officers or employees of other departments or agencies to provide assistance as necessary in carrying out subsection (b) of this section. While providing such assistance, these officers and employees shall be under the control, authority, and supervision of the Coast Guard. The Administrator and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may issue regulations jointly or severally as may be necessary and appropriate to carry out their duties under this section.


(b) Powers of authorized officersTo enforce this chapter on board any vessel subject to the provisions of this chapter, any officer who is authorized by the Administrator or by the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating may—(1) board and inspect any vessel which is subject to the provisions of this chapter;

(2) search any such vessel if the officer has reasonable cause to believe that the vessel has been used or employed in the violation of any provision of this chapter;

(3) arrest any person subject to section 1461 of this title if the officer has reasonable cause to believe that the person has committed a criminal offense under section 1463 of this title;

(4) seize any such vessel together with its gear, furniture, appurtenances, stores, and cargo, used or employed in, or with respect to which it reasonably appears that such vessel was used or employed in, the violation of any provision of this chapter if such seizure is necessary to prevent evasion of the enforcement of this chapter;

(5) seize any hard mineral resource recovered or processed in violation of any provision of this chapter;

(6) seize any other evidence related to any violation of any provision of this chapter;

(7) execute any warrant or other process issued by any court of competent jurisdiction; and

(8) exercise any other lawful authority.


(c) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section, the term “provisions of this chapter” or “provision of this chapter” means (1) any provision of subchapter I or II of this chapter or this subchapter, (2) any regulation issued under subchapter I of this chapter, subchapter II of this chapter, or this subchapter, and (3) any term, condition, or restriction of any license or permit issued under subchapter I of this chapter.


(d) Proprietary informationProprietary and privileged information seized or maintained under this subchapter concerning a person or vessel engaged in exploration or commercial recovery shall not be made available for general or public use or inspection. The Administrator and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall issue regulations to insure the confidentiality of privileged and proprietary information.


(Pub. L. 96–283, title III, § 304, June 28, 1980, 94 Stat. 578.)


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


