§ 1300. Pilot program for alternative water source projects(a) PolicyNothing in this section shall be construed to affect the application of section 1251(g) of this title and all of the provisions of this section shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of section 1251(g) of this title.


(b) In generalThe Administrator may establish a pilot program to make grants to State, interstate, and intrastate water resource development agencies (including water management districts and water supply authorities), local government agencies, private utilities, and nonprofit entities for alternative water source projects to meet critical water supply needs.


(c) Eligible entityThe Administrator may make grants under this section to an entity only if the entity has authority under State law to develop or provide water for municipal, industrial, and agricultural uses in an area of the State that is experiencing critical water supply needs.


(d) Selection of projects(1) LimitationA project that has received funds under the reclamation and reuse program conducted under the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 390h et seq.) shall not be eligible for grant assistance under this section.


(2) Additional considerationIn making grants under this section, the Administrator shall consider whether the project is located within the boundaries of a State or area referred to in section 391 of title 43, and within the geographic scope of the reclamation and reuse program conducted under the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 390h et seq.).


(3) Geographical distributionAlternative water source projects selected by the Administrator under this section shall reflect a variety of geographical and environmental conditions.



(e) Committee resolution procedure(1) In generalNo appropriation shall be made for any alternative water source project under this section, the total Federal cost of which exceeds $3,000,000, if such project has not been approved by a resolution adopted by the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.


(2) Requirements for securing considerationFor purposes of securing consideration of approval under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall provide to a committee referred to in paragraph (1) such information as the committee requests and the non-Federal sponsor shall provide to the committee information on the costs and relative needs for the alternative water source project.



(f) Uses of grantsAmounts from grants received under this section may be used for engineering, design, construction, and final testing of alternative water source projects designed to meet critical water supply needs. Such amounts may not be used for planning, feasibility studies or for operation, maintenance, replacement, repair, or rehabilitation.


(g) Cost sharingThe Federal share of the eligible costs of an alternative water source project carried out using assistance made available under this section shall not exceed 50 percent.


(h) ReportsOn or before September 30, 2004, the Administrator shall transmit to Congress a report on the results of the pilot program established under this section, including progress made toward meeting the critical water supply needs of the participants in the pilot program.


(i) DefinitionsIn this section, the following definitions apply:(1) Alternative water source projectThe term “alternative water source project” means a project designed to provide municipal, industrial, and agricultural water supplies in an environmentally sustainable manner by conserving, managing, reclaiming, or reusing water or wastewater or by treating wastewater. Such term does not include water treatment or distribution facilities.


(2) Critical water supply needsThe term “critical water supply needs” means existing or reasonably anticipated future water supply needs that cannot be met by existing water supplies, as identified in a comprehensive statewide or regional water supply plan or assessment projected over a planning period of at least 20 years.



(j) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section a total of $75,000,000 for fiscal years 2002 through 2004. Such sums shall remain available until expended.


(June 30, 1948, ch. 758, title II, § 220, as added Pub. L. 106–457, title VI, § 602, Nov. 7, 2000, 114 Stat. 1975.)


References in TextThe Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), (2), is Pub. L. 102–575, Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4600, as amended. Provisions relating to the reclamation and reuse program are classified generally to section 390h et seq. of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1992 Amendment note set out under section 371 of Title 43 and Tables.


