“SEC. 702. PERSIAN GULF WAR VETERANS HEALTH REGISTRY.“(a) Establishment of Registry.—The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish and maintain a special record to be known as the ‘Persian Gulf War Veterans Health Registry’ (in this section referred to as the ‘Registry’).

“(b) Contents of Registry.—Except as provided in subsection (c), the Registry shall include the following information:“(1) A list containing the name of each individual who served as a member of the Armed Forces in the Persian Gulf theater of operations during the Persian Gulf War and who—“(A) applies for care or services from the Department of Veterans Affairs under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code;

“(B) files a claim for compensation under chapter 11 of such title on the basis of any disability which may be associated with such service;

“(C) dies and is survived by a spouse, child, or parent who files a claim for dependency and indemnity compensation under chapter 13 of such title on the basis of such service;

“(D) requests from the Department a health examination under section 703; or

“(E) receives from the Department of Defense a health examination similar to the health examination referred to in subparagraph (D) and requests inclusion in the Registry.


“(2) Relevant medical data relating to the health status of, and other information that the Secretary considers relevant and appropriate with respect to, each individual described in paragraph (1) who—“(A) grants to the Secretary permission to include such information in the Registry; or

“(B) at the time the individual is listed in the Registry, is deceased.



“(c) Individuals Submitting Claims or Making Requests Before Date of Enactment.—If in the case of an individual described in subsection (b)(1) the application, claim, or request referred to in such subsection was submitted, filed, or made, before the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 4, 1992], the Secretary shall, to the extent feasible, include in the Registry such individual’s name and the data and information, if any, described in subsection (b)(2) relating to the individual.

“(d) Department of Defense Information.—The Secretary of Defense shall furnish to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs such information maintained by the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs considers necessary to establish and maintain the Registry.

“(e) Relation to Department of Defense Registry.—The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall ensure that information is collected and maintained in the Registry in a manner that permits effective and efficient cross-reference between the Registry and the registry established under section 734 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (Public Law 102–190; 105 Stat. 1411; 10 U.S.C. 1074 note), as amended by section 704.

“(f) Ongoing Outreach to Individuals Listed in Registry.—The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from time to time, notify individuals listed in the Registry of significant developments in research on the health consequences of military service in the Persian Gulf theater of operations during the Persian Gulf War.

