“SEC. 203. 225TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION COMMEMORATION PROGRAM.“(a) In General.—The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in this Act [title] referred to as the ‘Secretary’) shall establish a program to be known as the ‘225th Anniversary of the American Revolution Commemoration’ (hereinafter in this Act [title] referred to as the ‘225th Anniversary’). In administering the 225th Anniversary, the Secretary shall—“(1) produce and disseminate to appropriate persons educational materials, such as handbooks, maps, interpretive guides, or electronic information related to the 225th Anniversary and the American Revolution;

“(2) enter into appropriate cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding to provide technical assistance under subsection (c);

“(3) assist in the protection of resources associated with the American Revolution;

“(4) enhance communications, connections, and collaboration among the National Park Service units and programs related to the Revolutionary War;

“(5) expand the research base for American Revolution interpretation and education; and

“(6) create and adopt an official, uniform symbol or device for the theme ‘Lighting Freedom’s Flame: American Revolution, 225th Anniversary’ and issue regulations for its use.


“(b) Elements.—The 225th Anniversary shall encompass the following elements:“(1) All units and programs of the National Park Service determined by the Secretary to pertain to the American Revolution.

“(2) Other governmental and nongovernmental sites, facilities, and programs of an educational, research, or interpretive nature that are documented to be directly related to the American Revolution.

“(3) Through the Secretary of State, the participation of the Governments of the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, Spain, and Canada.


“(c) Cooperative Agreements and Memoranda of Understanding.—To achieve the purposes of this Act [title] and to ensure effective coordination of the Federal and non-Federal elements of the 225th Anniversary with National Park Service units and programs, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding with, and provide technical assistance to, the following:“(1) The heads of other Federal agencies, States, units of local government, and private entities.

“(2) In cooperation with the Secretary of State, the Governments of the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, Spain, and Canada.


“(d) Authorization of Appropriations.—There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this Act [title] $500,000 for each of fiscal years 2004 through 2009.”

