“Sec. 6. (a) The advisory committee referred to in subsections (b) and (c) of section 5, to be known as the Veterans’ Advisory Committee on Environmental Hazards (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ‘Committee’) shall consist of nine members appointed by the Administrator of Veterans’ Affairs [now Secretary of Veterans Affairs] after requesting and considering recommendations from veteran organizations, including—“(1) six individuals (of whom none may be members of the Armed Forces on active duty or employees of the Veterans’ Administration [now Department of Veterans Affairs] or the Department of Defense and not more than three may be employees of other Federal departments or agencies), appointed, after requesting and considering the recommendations of the heads of Federal entities with particular expertise in biomedical and environmental science, including—“(A) three individuals who are recognized medical or scientific authorities in fields pertinent to understanding the health effects of exposure to ionizing radiation; and

“(B) three individuals who are recognized medical or scientific authorities in fields, such as epidemiology and other scientific disciplines, pertinent to determining and assessing the health effects of exposure to ionizing radiation in exposed populations; and


“(2) three individuals from the general public, including at least one disabled veteran, having a demonstrated interest in and experience relating to veterans’ concerns regarding exposure to ionizing radiation.


“(b) The Committee shall include, as ex officio, nonvoting members, the Chief Medical Director and the Chief Benefits Director of the Veterans’ Administration [now Under Secretary for Health and Under Secretary for Benefits of the Department of Veterans Affairs], or their designees.

“(c) The Committee shall submit to the Administrator [now Secretary] any recommendations it considers appropriate for administrative or legislative action.

“(d)(1) The six members of the Committee described in subsection (a)(1) shall, in addition to serving as members of the Committee, constitute a Scientific Council of the Committee (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ‘Council’).

“(2) The Council shall have responsibility for evaluating scientific studies relating to possible adverse health effects of exposure to ionizing radiation.

“(3) The Council shall make findings and evaluations regarding pertinent scientific studies and shall submit to the Committee, the Administrator [now Secretary], and the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives directly periodic reports on such findings and evaluations.


“(e) The Administrator [now Secretary] shall designate one of the members to chair the Committee and another member to chair the Council.

“(f) The Administrator [now Secretary] shall determine the terms of service and pay and allowances of members of the Committee, except that a term of service of any member may not exceed three years. The Administrator may reappoint any member for additional terms of service.

“(g) The Administrator [now Secretary] shall provide administrative support services and fiscal support for the Committee.

