§ 6710. Public participation(a) Hearings.—(1) In general.—A unit of general local government expending payments under this chapter shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed use of the payment in relation to its entire budget. At the hearing, persons shall be given an opportunity to provide written and oral views to the governmental authority responsible for enacting the budget and to ask questions about the entire budget and the relation of the payment to the entire budget. The government shall hold the hearing at a time and a place that allows and encourages public attendance and participation.

(2) Senior citizens.—A unit of general local government holding a hearing required under this subsection or by the budget process of the government shall try to provide senior citizens and senior citizen organizations with an opportunity to present views at the hearing before the government makes a final decision on the use of the payment.


(b) Disclosure of Information.—(1) In general.—By the 10th day before a hearing required under subsection (a)(1) is held, a unit of general local government shall—(A) make available for inspection by the public at the principal office of the government a statement of the proposed use of the payment and a summary of the proposed budget of the government; and

(B) publish in at least one newspaper of general circulation the proposed use of the payment with the summary of the proposed budget and a notice of the time and place of the hearing.


(2) Availability.—By the 30th day after adoption of the budget under State or local law, the government shall—(A) make available for inspection by the public at the principal office of the government a summary of the adopted budget, including the proposed use of the payment; and

(B) publish in at least one newspaper of general circulation a notice that the information referred to in subparagraph (A) is available for inspection.



(c) Waivers of Requirements.—A requirement—(1) under subsection (a)(1) may be waived if the budget process required under the applicable State or local law or charter provisions—(A) ensures the opportunity for public attendance and participation contemplated by subsection (a); and

(B) includes a hearing on the proposed use of a payment received under this chapter in relation to the entire budget of the government; and


(2) under subsection (b)(1)(B) and paragraph (2)(B) may be waived if the cost of publishing the information would be unreasonably burdensome in relation to the amount allocated to the government from amounts available for payment under this chapter, or if publication is otherwise impracticable.


(d) Exception to 10-Day Limitation.—If the Secretary is satisfied that a unit of general local government will provide adequate notice of the proposed use of a payment received under this chapter, the 10-day period under subsection (b)(1) may be changed to the extent necessary to comply with applicable State or local law.

(Added Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31001(a), Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1873.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6710, Pub. L. 97–258, Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1020, related to separate law enforcement officer allocations for Louisiana, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 99–272, title XIV, § 14001(a)(1), (e), Apr. 7, 1986, 100 Stat. 327, 329, eff. Oct. 18, 1986.


