“SEC. 5. DO NOT PAY INITIATIVE.“(a) Prepayment and Preaward Procedures.—“(1) In general.—Each agency shall review prepayment and preaward procedures and ensure that a thorough review of available databases with relevant information on eligibility occurs to determine program or award eligibility and prevent improper payments before the release of any Federal funds.

“(2) Databases.—At a minimum and before issuing any payment and award, each agency shall review as appropriate the following databases to verify eligibility of the payment and award:“(A) The Death Master File of the Social Security Administration.

“(B) The General Services Administration’s Excluded Parties List System.

“(C) The Debt Check Database of the Department of the Treasury.

“(D) The Credit Alert System or Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

“(E) The List of Excluded Individuals/Entities of the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services.

“(F) Information regarding incarcerated individuals maintained by the Commissioner of Social Security under sections 202(x) and 1611(e) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 402(x), 1382(e)].



“(b) Do Not Pay Initiative.—“(1) Establishment.—There is established the Do Not Pay Initiative which shall include—“(A) use of the databases described under subsection (a)(2); and

“(B) use of other databases designated by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in consultation with agencies and in accordance with paragraph (2).


“(2) Other databases.—In making designations of other databases under paragraph (1)(B), the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall—“(A) consider any database that substantially assists in preventing improper payments; and

“(B) provide public notice and an opportunity for comment before designating a database under paragraph (1)(B).


“(3) Access and review by agencies.—For purposes of identifying and preventing improper payments, each agency shall have access to, and use of, the Do Not Pay Initiative to verify payment or award eligibility in accordance with subsection (a) when the Director of the Office of Management and Budget determines the Do Not Pay Initiative is appropriately established for the agency.

“(4) Payment otherwise required.—When using the Do Not Pay Initiative, an agency shall recognize that there may be circumstances under which the law requires a payment or award to be made to a recipient, regardless of whether that recipient is identified as potentially ineligible under the Do Not Pay Initiative.

“(5) Annual report.—The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit to Congress an annual report, which may be included as part of another report submitted to Congress by the Director, regarding the operation of the Do Not Pay Initiative, which shall—“(A) include an evaluation of whether the Do Not Pay Initiative has reduced improper payments or improper awards; and

“(B) provide the frequency of corrections or identification of incorrect information.



“(c) Database Integration Plan.—Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Jan. 10, 2013], the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide to the Congress a plan for—“(1) inclusion of other databases on the Do Not Pay Initiative;

“(2) to the extent permitted by law, agency access to the Do Not Pay Initiative; and

“(3) the data use agreements described under subsection (e)(2)(D).


“(d) Initial Working System.—“(1) Establishment.—Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall establish a working system for prepayment and preaward review that includes the Do Not Pay Initiative as described under this section.

“(2) Working system.—The working system established under paragraph (1)—“(A) may be located within an appropriate agency;

“(B) shall include not less than 3 agencies as users of the system; and

“(C) shall include investigation activities for fraud and systemic improper payments detection through analytic technologies and other techniques, which may include commercial database use or access.


“(3) Application to all agencies.—Not later than June 1, 2013, each agency shall review all payments and awards for all programs of that agency through the system established under this subsection.


“(e) Facilitating Data Access by Federal Agencies and Offices of Inspectors General for Purposes of Program Integrity.—“(1) Definition.—In this subsection, the term ‘Inspector General’ means any Inspector General described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (I) of section 11(b)(1) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) and any successor Inspector General.

“(2) Computer matching by federal agencies for purposes of investigation and prevention of improper payments and fraud.—“(A) In general.—Except as provided in this paragraph, in accordance with section 552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the Privacy Act of 1974), each Inspector General and the head of each agency may enter into computer matching agreements with other inspectors general and agency heads that allow ongoing data matching (which shall include automated data matching) in order to assist in the detection and prevention of improper payments.

“(B) Review.—Not later than 60 days after a proposal for an agreement under subparagraph (A) has been presented to a Data Integrity Board established under section 552a(u) of title 5, United States Code, for consideration, the Data Integrity Board shall respond to the proposal.

“(C) Termination date.—An agreement under subparagraph (A)—“(i) shall have a termination date of less than 3 years; and

“(ii) during the 3-month period ending on the date on which the agreement is scheduled to terminate, may be renewed by the agencies entering the agreement for not more than 3 years.


“(D) Multiple agencies.—For purposes of this paragraph, section 552a(o)(1) of title 5, United States Code, shall be applied by substituting ‘between the source agency and the recipient agency or non-Federal agency or an agreement governing multiple agencies’ for ‘between the source agency and the recipient agency or non-Federal agency’ in the matter preceding subparagraph (A).

“(E) Cost-benefit analysis.—A justification under section 552a(o)(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code, relating to an agreement under subparagraph (A) is not required to contain a specific estimate of any savings under the computer matching agreement.


“(3) Guidance by the office of management and budget.—Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, and in consultation with the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Commissioner of Social Security, and the head of any other relevant agency, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall—“(A) issue guidance for agencies regarding implementing this subsection, which shall include standards for—“(i) reimbursement of costs, when necessary, between agencies;

“(ii) retention and timely destruction of records in accordance with section 552a(o)(1)(F) of title 5, United States Code; and

“(iii) prohibiting duplication and redisclosure of records in accordance with section 552a(o)(1)(H) of title 5, United States Code;


“(B) review the procedures of the Data Integrity Boards established under section 552a(u) of title 5, United States Code, and develop new guidance for the Data Integrity Boards to—“(i) improve the effectiveness and responsiveness of the Data Integrity Boards;

“(ii) ensure privacy protections in accordance with section 552a of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the Privacy Act of 1974); and

“(iii) establish standard matching agreements for use when appropriate; and


“(C) establish and clarify rules regarding what constitutes making an agreement entered under paragraph (2)(A) available upon request to the public for purposes of section 552a(o)(2)(A)(ii) of title 5, United States Code, which shall include requiring publication of the agreement on a public website.


“(4) Corrections.—The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall establish procedures providing for the correction of data in order to ensure—“(A) compliance with section 552a(p) of title 5, United States Code; and

“(B) that corrections are made in any Do Not Pay Initiative database and in any relevant source databases designated by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget under subsection (b)(1).


“(5) Compliance.—The head of each agency, in consultation with the Inspector General of the agency, shall ensure that any information provided to an individual or entity under this subsection is provided in accordance with protocols established under this subsection.

“(6) Rule of construction.—Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to affect the rights of an individual under section 552a(p) of title 5, United States Code.


“(f) Development and Access to a Database of Incarcerated Individuals.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress recommendations for increasing the use of, access to, and the technical feasibility of using data on the Federal, State, and local conviction and incarceration status of individuals for purposes of identifying and preventing improper payments by Federal agencies and programs and fraud.

“(g) Plan To Curb Federal Improper Payments to Deceased Individuals by Improving the Quality and Use by Federal Agencies of the Social Security Administration Death Master File.—“(1) Establishment.—In conjunction with the Commissioner of Social Security and in consultation with relevant stakeholders that have an interest in or responsibility for providing the data, and the States, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall establish a plan for improving the quality, accuracy, and timeliness of death data maintained by the Social Security Administration, including death information reported to the Commissioner under section 205(r) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(r)).

“(2) Additional actions under plan.—The plan established under this subsection shall include recommended actions by agencies to—“(A) increase the quality and frequency of access to the Death Master File and other death data;

“(B) achieve a goal of at least daily access as appropriate;

“(C) provide for all States and other data providers to use improved and electronic means for providing data;

“(D) identify improved methods by agencies for determining ineligible payments due to the death of a recipient through proactive verification means; and

“(E) address improper payments made by agencies to deceased individuals as part of Federal retirement programs.


“(3) Report.—Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit a report to Congress on the plan established under this subsection, including recommended legislation.


