“SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF WORLD WAR I CENTENNIAL COMMISSION.“(a) Establishment.—There is established a commission to be known as the ‘World War I Centennial Commission’.

“(b) Membership.—“(1) Composition.—The Centennial Commission shall be composed of 12 members as follows:“(A) Two members who shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.

“(B) One member who shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.

“(C) Two members who shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate.

“(D) One member who shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate.

“(E) Three members who shall be appointed by the President from among persons who are broadly representative of the people of the United States (including members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and representatives of veterans service organizations).

“(F) One member who shall be appointed by the executive director of the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States.

“(G) One member who shall be appointed by the executive director of the American Legion.

“(H) One member who shall be appointed by the president of the Liberty Memorial Association.


“(2) Time for appointment.—The members of the Centennial Commission shall be appointed not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 14, 2013].

“(3) Period of appointment.—Each member shall be appointed for the life of the Centennial Commission.

“(4) Vacancies.—A vacancy in the Centennial Commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.


“(c) Meetings.—“(1) Initial meeting.—“(A) In general.—Not later than 30 days after the date on which all members of the Centennial Commission have been appointed, the Centennial Commission shall hold its first meeting.

“(B) Location.—The location for the meeting held under subparagraph (A) shall be the America’s National World War I Museum.


“(2) Subsequent meetings.—“(A) In general.—The Centennial Commission shall meet at the call of the Chair.

“(B) Frequency.—The Chair shall call a meeting of the members of the Centennial Commission not less frequently than once each year.

“(C) Location.—Not less frequently than once each year, the Centennial Commission shall meet at the America’s National World War I Museum.


“(3) Quorum.—Seven members of the Centennial Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number may hold hearings.


“(d) Chair and Vice Chair.—The Centennial Commission shall select a Chair and Vice Chair from among its members.

