§ 7506. Monitoring responsibilities of the Comptroller General(a) The Comptroller General shall review provisions requiring financial audits of non-Federal entities that receive Federal awards that are contained in bills and resolutions reported by the committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives.

(b) If the Comptroller General determines that a bill or resolution contains provisions that are inconsistent with the requirements of this chapter, the Comptroller General shall, at the earliest practicable date, notify in writing—(1) the committee that reported such bill or resolution; and

(2)(A) the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate (in the case of a bill or resolution reported by a committee of the Senate); or

(B) the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of the House of Representatives (in the case of a bill or resolution reported by a committee of the House of Representatives).



(Added Pub. L. 98–502, § 2(a), Oct. 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 2333; amended Pub. L. 104–156, § 2, July 5, 1996, 110 Stat. 1403.)

Amendments1996—Pub. L. 104–156 reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Comptroller General shall review provisions requiring financial or financial and compliance audits of recipients of Federal assistance that are contained in bills and resolutions reported by the committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives. If the Comptroller General determines that a bill or resolution contains provisions that are inconsistent with the requirements of this chapter, the Comptroller General shall, at the earliest practicable date, notify in writing—
“(1) the committee that reported such bill or resolution; and
“(2)(A) the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate (in the case of a bill or resolution reported by a committee of the Senate); or
“(B) the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives (in the case of a bill or resolution reported by a committee of the House of Representatives).”


Change of Name
Committee on Governmental Affairs of Senate changed to Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of Senate, effective Jan. 4, 2005, by Senate Resolution No. 445, One Hundred Eighth Congress, Oct. 9, 2004.
Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Government Reform of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999. Committee on Government Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


