“SEC. 6. DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR.“(a) In General.—The Director, in consultation with agency heads and representatives of non-Federal entities, shall direct, coordinate, and assist Federal agencies in establishing—“(1) a common application and reporting system, including—“(A) a common application or set of common applications, wherein a non-Federal entity can apply for Federal financial assistance from multiple Federal financial assistance programs that serve similar purposes and are administered by different Federal agencies;

“(B) a common system, including electronic processes, wherein a non-Federal entity can apply for, manage, and report on the use of funding from multiple Federal financial assistance programs that serve similar purposes and are administered by different Federal agencies; and

“(C) uniform administrative rules for Federal financial assistance programs across different Federal agencies; and


“(2) an interagency process for addressing—“(A) ways to streamline and simplify Federal financial assistance administrative procedures and reporting requirements for non-Federal entities;

“(B) improved interagency and intergovernmental coordination of information collection and sharing of data pertaining to Federal financial assistance programs, including appropriate information sharing consistent with section 552a of title 5, United States Code; and

“(C) improvements in the timeliness, completeness, and quality of information received by Federal agencies from recipients of Federal financial assistance.



“(b) Lead Agency and Working Groups.—The Director may designate a lead agency to assist the Director in carrying out the responsibilities under this section. The Director may use interagency working groups to assist in carrying out such responsibilities.

“(c) Review of Plans and Reports.—Upon the request of the Director, agencies shall submit to the Director, for the Director’s review, information and other reporting regarding agency implementation of this Act.

“(d) Exemptions.—The Director may exempt any Federal agency or Federal financial assistance program from the requirements of this Act if the Director determines that the Federal agency does not have a significant number of Federal financial assistance programs. The Director shall maintain a list of exempted agencies which shall be available to the public through the Office of Management and Budget’s Internet site.

“(e) Report on Recommended Changes in Law.—Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 20, 1999], the Director shall submit to Congress a report containing recommendations for changes in law to improve the effectiveness, performance, and coordination of Federal financial assistance programs.

“(f) Deadline.—All actions required under this section shall be carried out not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 20, 1999].

