§ 320. Department of Veterans Affairs-Department of Defense Joint Executive Committee(a) Joint Executive Committee.—(1) There is established an interagency committee to be known as the Department of Veterans Affairs-Department of Defense Joint Executive Committee (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “Committee”).

(2) The Committee is composed of—(A) the Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs and such other officers and employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may designate; and

(B) the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and such other officers and employees of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of Defense may designate.



(b) Administrative Matters.—(1) The Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Under Secretary of Defense shall determine the size and structure of the Committee, as well as the administrative and procedural guidelines for the operation of the Committee.

(2) The two Departments shall supply appropriate staff and resources to provide administrative support and services. Support for such purposes shall be provided at a level sufficient for the efficient operation of the Committee, including a subordinate Health Executive Committee, a subordinate Benefits Executive Committee, and such other committees or working groups as considered necessary by the Deputy Secretary and Under Secretary.


(c) Recommendations.—(1) The Committee shall recommend to the Secretaries strategic direction for the joint coordination and sharing efforts between and within the two Departments under section 8111 of this title and shall oversee implementation of those efforts.

(2) The Committee shall submit to the two Secretaries and to Congress an annual report containing such recommendations as the Committee considers appropriate.


(d) Functions.—In order to enable the Committee to make recommendations in its annual report under subsection (c)(2), the Committee shall do the following:(1) Review existing policies, procedures, and practices relating to the coordination and sharing of resources between the two Departments.

(2) Identify changes in policies, procedures, and practices that, in the judgment of the Committee, would promote mutually beneficial coordination, use, or exchange of use of services and resources of the two Departments, with the goal of improving the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of the delivery of benefits and services to veterans, service members, military retirees, and their families through an enhanced Department of Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense partnership.

(3) Identify and assess further opportunities for the coordination and collaboration between the Departments that, in the judgment of the Committee, would not adversely affect the range of services, the quality of care, or the established priorities for benefits provided by either Department.

(4) Review the plans of both Departments for the acquisition of additional resources, especially new facilities and major equipment and technology, in order to assess the potential effect of such plans on further opportunities for the coordination and sharing of resources.

(5) Review the implementation of activities designed to promote the coordination and sharing of resources between the Departments.


(Added Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title V, § 583(a)(1), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1490.)

Effective DatePub. L. 108–136, div. A, title V, § 583(d)(2), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1492, provided that: “If this Act is enacted on or after October 1, 2003, the amendments made by this section [enacting this section and amending section 8111 of this title] shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 24, 2003].”


Joint Program for Development and Evaluation of Integrated Healing Care Practices for Members of the Armed Forces and VeteransPub. L. 108–136, div. A, title VII, § 727, Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1537, provided that:
“(a) Program.—The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may conduct a program to develop and evaluate integrated healing care practices for members of the Armed Forces and veterans. Any such program shall be carried out through the Department of Veterans Affairs-Department of Defense Joint Executive Committee established under section 320 of title 38, United States Code.

“(b) Source of DOD Funds.—Amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act [see Tables for classification] for the Defense Health Program may be used for the program under subsection (a).”





