§ 902. Enforcement and arrest authority of Department police officers(a)(1) Employees of the Department who are Department police officers shall, with respect to acts occurring on Department property—(A) enforce Federal laws;

(B) enforce the rules prescribed under section 901 of this title;

(C) enforce traffic and motor vehicle laws of a State or local government (by issuance of a citation for violation of such laws) within the jurisdiction of which such Department property is located as authorized by an express grant of authority under applicable State or local law;

(D) carry the appropriate Department-issued weapons, including firearms, while off Department property in an official capacity or while in an official travel status;

(E) conduct investigations, on and off Department property, of offenses that may have been committed on property under the original jurisdiction of Department, consistent with agreements or other consultation with affected Federal, State, or local law enforcement agencies; and

(F) carry out, as needed and appropriate, the duties described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) when engaged in duties authorized by other Federal statutes.


(2) Subject to regulations prescribed under subsection (b), a Department police officer may make arrests on Department property for a violation of a Federal law or any rule prescribed under section 901(a) of this title, and on any arrest warrant issued by competent judicial authority.


(b) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations with respect to Department police officers. Such regulations shall include—(1) policies with respect to the exercise by Department police officers of the enforcement and arrest authorities provided by this section;

(2) the scope and duration of training that is required for Department police officers, with particular emphasis on dealing with situations involving patients; and

(3) rules limiting the carrying and use of weapons by Department police officers.


(c) The powers granted to Department police officers designated under this section shall be exercised in accordance with guidelines approved by the Secretary and the Attorney General.

(d) Rates of basic pay for Department police officers may be increased by the Secretary under section 7455 of this title.

(Added Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a), Aug. 6, 1991, 105 Stat. 397; amended Pub. L. 111–163, title X, § 1001, May 5, 2010, 124 Stat. 1181.)

Prior ProvisionsPrior section 902 was renumbered section 2302 of this title.
Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 218(b) of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a).

Amendments2010—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 111–163, § 1001(1)(A), amended par. (1) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (1) read as follows: “Employees of the Department who are Department police officers shall, with respect to acts occurring on Department property, enforce—
“(A) Federal laws;
“(B) the rules prescribed under section 901 of this title; and
“(C) subject to paragraph (2), traffic and motor vehicle laws of a State or local government within the jurisdiction of which such Department property is located.”
Subsec. (a)(2), (3). Pub. L. 111–163, § 1001(1)(B), (C), redesignated par. (3) as (2), inserted “, and on any arrest warrant issued by competent judicial authority” before the period, and struck out former par. (2) which read as follows: “A law described in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) may be enforced under such subparagraph only as authorized by an express grant of authority under applicable State or local law. Any such enforcement shall be by the issuance of a citation for violation of such law.”
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 111–163, § 1001(2), amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (c) read as follows: “The Secretary shall consult with the Attorney General before prescribing regulations under paragraph (1) of subsection (b).”


