§ 1602. Congressional declaration of policies
The Congress declares that it is the continuing policy of the United States to promote an adequate and stable supply of materials necessary to maintain national security, economic well-being and industrial production with appropriate attention to a long-term balance between resource production, energy use, a healthy environment, natural resources conservation, and social needs. The Congress further declares that implementation of this policy requires that the President shall, through the Executive Office of the President, coordinate the responsible departments and agencies to, among other measures—(1) identify materials needs and assist in the pursuit of measures that would assure the availability of materials critical to commerce, the economy, and national security;

(2) establish a mechanism for the coordination and evaluation of Federal materials programs, including those involving research and development so as to complement related efforts by the private sector as well as other domestic and international agencies and organizations;

(3) establish a long-range assessment capability concerning materials demands, supply and needs, and provide for the policies and programs necessary to meet those needs;

(4) promote a vigorous, comprehensive, and coordinated program of materials research and development consistent with the policies and priorities set forth in the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.);

(5) promote cooperative research and development programs with other nations for the equitable and frugal use of materials and energy;

(6) promote and encourage private enterprise in the development of economically sound and stable domestic materials industries; and

(7) encourage Federal agencies to facilitate availability and development of domestic resources to meet critical materials needs.

(Pub. L. 96–479, § 3, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2305.)


References in TextThe National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976, referred to in par. (4), is Pub. L. 94–282, May 11, 1976, 90 Stat. 459, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 79 (§ 6601 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6601 of Title 42 and Tables.


