“SEC. 3. CHALLENGES TO THE LIST.“(a) Challenge Authorized.—An interested party may submit to an executive agency a challenge of an omission of a particular activity from, or an inclusion of a particular activity on, a list for which a notice of public availability has been published under section 2.

“(b) Interested Party Defined.—For the purposes of this section, the term ‘interested party’, with respect to an activity referred to in subsection (a), means the following:“(1) A private sector source that—“(A) is an actual or prospective offeror for any contract, or other form of agreement, to perform the activity; and

“(B) has a direct economic interest in performing the activity that would be adversely affected by a determination not to procure the performance of the activity from a private sector source.


“(2) A representative of any business or professional association that includes within its membership private sector sources referred to in paragraph (1).

“(3) An officer or employee of an organization within an executive agency that is an actual or prospective offeror to perform the activity.

“(4) The head of any labor organization referred to in section 7103(a)(4) of title 5, United States Code, that includes within its membership officers or employees of an organization referred to in paragraph (3).


“(c) Time for Submission.—A challenge to a list shall be submitted to the executive agency concerned within 30 days after the publication of the notice of the public availability of the list under section 2.

“(d) Initial Decision.—Within 28 days after an executive agency receives a challenge, an official designated by the head of the executive agency shall—“(1) decide the challenge; and

“(2) transmit to the party submitting the challenge a written notification of the decision together with a discussion of the rationale for the decision and an explanation of the party’s right to appeal under subsection (e).


“(e) Appeal.—“(1) Authorization of appeal.—An interested party may appeal an adverse decision of the official to the head of the executive agency within 10 days after receiving a notification of the decision under subsection (d).

“(2) Decision on appeal.—Within 10 days after the head of an executive agency receives an appeal of a decision under paragraph (1), the head of the executive agency shall decide the appeal and transmit to the party submitting the appeal a written notification of the decision together with a discussion of the rationale for the decision.


