§ 152505. Powers
The corporation may—(1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;

(2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

(3) adopt and alter seals, emblems, and badges;

(4) choose directors, officers, trustees, managers, employees, and agents as the activities of the corporation require;

(5) make contracts;

(6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

(7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and secure its obligations by granting security interests in its property;

(8) publish a magazine and other publications consistent with the purposes of the corporation;

(9) charge and collect membership dues and subscription fees;

(10) receive contributions or grants of money or property to be devoted to carrying out the purposes of the corporation;

(11) use corporate funds to give prizes, awards, or other evidences of merit or recognition to individuals, corporations, and other organizations, public or private, for outstanding contributions toward the achievement of the purposes of the corporation;

(12) organize, establish, and conduct conferences on safety and accident prevention;

(13) establish and maintain offices to conduct its activities, charter local, State, and regional safety organizations, and establish, regulate, and discontinue departmental subdivisions and local, State, and regional chapters in appropriate places throughout the United States and its territories and possessions;

(14) sue and be sued; and

(15) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the purposes of the corporation.

(Pub. L. 105–225, Aug. 12, 1998, 112 Stat. 1416.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


15250536:464.Aug. 13, 1953, ch. 429, §§ 4, 18, 67 Stat. 570, 574.
 36:478. 


In this section, the text of 36:478 is omitted as executed and obsolete.
In clause (1), the word “alter” is omitted as unnecessary. The words “not inconsistent with the laws of the United States or any State in which the corporation is to operate” are omitted as unnecessary.
In clause (2), the word “use” is omitted as unnecessary.
In clause (3), the words “use, and display” and “as it may adopt” are omitted as unnecessary.
In clauses (4) and (13), the word “activities” is substituted for “business” for consistency in the revised title.
Clause (6) is substituted for “take and hold by lease, gift, purchase, grant, devise, or bequest any property, real or personal, necessary for attaining the objects and carrying into effect the purposes of the corporation” and “transfer, encumber, and convey real or personal property” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “subject to applicable provisions of law in any State (a) governing the amount or kind of real and personal property which may be held by, or (b) otherwise limiting or controlling the ownership of real or personal property by a corporation operating in such State” are omitted as unnecessary.
In clause (7), the words “for the purposes of the corporation” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “issue instruments of indebtedness, and secure its obligations by granting security interests in its property” are substituted for “issue bonds therefor, and secure the same by mortgage” for consistency in the revised title. The words “subject to all applicable provisions of Federal or State law” are omitted as unnecessary.
In clause (8), the words “and materials, whether periodic or occasional” are omitted as unnecessary.
In clause (11), the word “individuals” is substituted for “persons” for consistency in the revised title. The word “associations” is omitted as included in “organizations”.
In clause (14), the words “complain, and defend in any court of competent jurisdiction” are omitted as unnecessary.
In clause (15), the words “and, for such purpose, the corporation shall also have, in addition to the foregoing in this section and subsection, the rights, powers, duties, and liabilities of the existing corporation referred to in section 478 of this title as far as they are not modified or superseded by this chapter” are omitted as unnecessary.


