§ 3302. Committee on Levee Safety(a) EstablishmentThere is established a committee to be known as the “Committee on Levee Safety”.


(b) MembershipThe committee shall be composed of 16 members as follows:(1) Nonvoting membersThe following 2 nonvoting members:(A) The Secretary (or a designee of the Secretary).

(B) The Administrator (or a designee of the Administrator).


(2) The following 14 voting members appointed by the Secretary:(A) Eight representatives of State levee safety agencies, one from each of the eight civil works divisions of the Corps of Engineers.

(B) Two representatives of the private sector who have expertise in levee safety.

(C) Two representatives of local and regional governmental agencies who have expertise in levee safety.

(D) Two representatives of Indian tribes who have expertise in levee safety.



(c) Administration(1) Terms of voting members(A) In generalA voting member of the committee shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, except that, of the members first appointed—(i) 5 shall be appointed for a term of 1 year;

(ii) 5 shall be appointed for a term of 2 years; and

(iii) 4 shall be appointed for a term of 3 years.


(B) ReappointmentA voting member of the committee may be reappointed to the committee, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.


(C) VacanciesA vacancy on the committee shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.



(2) Chairperson(A) In generalThe voting members of the committee shall appoint a chairperson from among the voting members of the committee.


(B) TermThe chairperson shall serve a term of not more than 2 years.




(d) Standing committees(1) In generalThe committee may establish standing committees comprised of volunteers from all levels of government and the private sector, to advise the committee regarding specific levee safety issues, including participating programs, technical issues, public education and awareness, and safety and the environment.


(2) MembershipThe committee shall recommend to the Secretary for approval individuals for membership on the standing committees.



(e) Duties and powersThe committee—(1) shall submit to the Secretary and Congress an annual report regarding the effectiveness of the levee safety initiative in accordance with section 3303b of this title; and

(2) may secure from other Federal agencies such services, and enter into such contracts, as the committee determines to be necessary to carry out this subsection.


(f) Task force coordinationThe committee shall, to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate the activities of the committee with the Federal Interagency Floodplain Management Task Force.


(g) Compensation(1) Federal employeesEach member of the committee who is an officer or employee of the United States—(A) shall serve without compensation in addition to compensation received for the services of the member as an officer or employee of the United States; but

(B) shall be allowed a per diem allowance for travel expenses, at rates authorized for an employee of an agency under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, while away from the home or regular place of business of the member in the performance of the duties of the committee.


(2) Non-Federal employeesTo the extent amounts are made available to carry out this section in appropriations Acts, the Secretary shall provide to each member of the committee who is not an officer or employee of the United States a stipend and a per diem allowance for travel expenses, at rates authorized for an employee of an agency under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, while away from the home or regular place of business of the member in performance of services for the committee.


(3) Standing committee membersEach member of a standing committee shall serve in a voluntary capacity.



(h) Applicability of Federal Advisory Committee ActThe Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the committee.


(Pub. L. 110–114, title IX, § 9003, Nov. 8, 2007, 121 Stat. 1288; Pub. L. 110–274, § 1, July 15, 2008, 122 Stat. 2493; Pub. L. 113–121, title III, § 3016(c), June 10, 2014, 128 Stat. 1291.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (h), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Amendments2014—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 113–121, § 3016(c)(1), added par. (1), redesignated par. (3) as (2), inserted “voting” after “14” in introductory provisions of par. (2), and struck out former pars. (1) and (2) which read as follows:
“(1) The Secretary (or the Secretary’s designee), who shall serve as the chairperson of the Committee.
“(2) The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (or the Administrator’s designee).”
Subsecs. (c) to (h). Pub. L. 113–121, § 3016(c)(2), (3), added subsecs. (c) to (g), redesignated former subsec. (g) as (h), and struck out former subsecs. (c) to (f) which related to duties, purposes, compensation of members, and travel expenses, respectively.
2008—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 110–274 substituted “Subject to the availability of appropriations,” for “To the extent amounts are made available in advance in appropriations Acts,”.


“Secretary” Defined
Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of Pub. L. 110–114, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.


