§ 3905. Projects eligible for assistance
The following projects may be carried out with amounts made available under this chapter:(1) Any project for flood damage reduction, hurricane and storm damage reduction, environmental restoration, coastal or inland harbor navigation improvement, or inland and intracoastal waterways navigation improvement that the Secretary determines is technically sound, economically justified, and environmentally acceptable, including—(A) a project to reduce flood damage;

(B) a project to restore aquatic ecosystems;

(C) a project to improve the inland and intracoastal waterways navigation system of the United States; and

(D) a project to improve navigation of a coastal or inland harbor of the United States, including channel deepening and construction of associated general navigation features.


(2) 1 or more activities that are eligible for assistance under section 1383(c) of this title, notwithstanding the public ownership requirement under paragraph (1) of that subsection.

(3) 1 or more activities described in section 300j–12(a)(2) of title 42.

(4) A project for enhanced energy efficiency in the operation of a public water system or a publicly owned treatment works.

(5) A project for repair, rehabilitation, or replacement of a treatment works, community water system, or aging water distribution or waste collection facility (including a facility that serves a population or community of an Indian reservation).

(6) A brackish or sea water desalination project, a managed aquifer recharge project, or a water recycling project.

(7) Acquisition of real property or an interest in real property—(A) if the acquisition is integral to a project described in paragraphs (1) through (6); or

(B) pursuant to an existing plan that, in the judgment of the Administrator or the Secretary, as applicable, would mitigate the environmental impacts of water resources infrastructure projects otherwise eligible for assistance under this section.


(8) A combination of projects, each of which is eligible under paragraph (2) or (3), for which a State infrastructure financing authority submits to the Administrator a single application.

(9) A combination of projects secured by a common security pledge, each of which is eligible under paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), or (7), for which an eligible entity, or a combination of eligible entities, submits a single application.

(Pub. L. 113–121, title V, § 5026, June 10, 2014, 128 Stat. 1334.)


“Secretary” Defined
Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.


