§ 527. Evaluation and data collection(a) The Secretary, pursuant to general standards which the Secretary shall prescribe in regulations, shall measure and evaluate on a continuing basis the effect of all programs authorized under this title, in order to determine their effectiveness in achieving stated goals in general, and in achieving such goals in relation to their cost, their effect on related programs, and their structure and mechanisms for delivery of services. Such information as the Secretary may consider necessary for purposes of such evaluations shall be made available to the Secretary, upon request, by all departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the executive branch.

(b) In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall collect, collate, and analyze on a continuing basis full statistical data regarding participation (including the duration thereof), provision of services, categories of beneficiaries, planning and construction of facilities, acquisition of real property, proposed excessing of land, accretion and attrition of personnel, and categorized expenditures attributable thereto, under all programs carried out under this title.

(c) The Secretary shall make available to the public, and on a regular basis provide to the appropriate committees of the Congress, copies of all completed evaluative research studies and summaries of evaluations of program impact and effectiveness carried out, and tabulations and analyses of all data collected, under this section.

(Added Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a), Aug. 6, 1991, 105 Stat. 391.)

Prior ProvisionsProvisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 219 of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 102–83, § 2(a).

Establishment of Open Burn Pit RegistryPub. L. 112–260, title II, § 201, Jan. 10, 2013, 126 Stat. 2422, provided that:
“(a) Establishment of Registry.—“(1) In general.—Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Jan. 10, 2013], the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall—“(A) establish and maintain an open burn pit registry for eligible individuals who may have been exposed to toxic airborne chemicals and fumes caused by open burn pits;

“(B) include any information in such registry that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines necessary to ascertain and monitor the health effects of the exposure of members of the Armed Forces to toxic airborne chemicals and fumes caused by open burn pits;

“(C) develop a public information campaign to inform eligible individuals about the open burn pit registry, including how to register and the benefits of registering; and

“(D) periodically notify eligible individuals of significant developments in the study and treatment of conditions associated with exposure to toxic airborne chemicals and fumes caused by open burn pits.


“(2) Coordination.—The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall coordinate with the Secretary of Defense in carrying out paragraph (1).


“(b) Report to Congress.—“(1) Reports by independent scientific organization.—The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall enter into an agreement with an independent scientific organization to prepare reports as follows:“(A) Not later than two years after the date on which the registry under subsection (a) is established, an initial report containing the following:“(i) An assessment of the effectiveness of actions taken by the Secretaries to collect and maintain information on the health effects of exposure to toxic airborne chemicals and fumes caused by open burn pits.

“(ii) Recommendations to improve the collection and maintenance of such information.

“(iii) Using established and previously published epidemiological studies, recommendations regarding the most effective and prudent means of addressing the medical needs of eligible individuals with respect to conditions that are likely to result from exposure to open burn pits.


“(B) Not later than five years after completing the initial report described in subparagraph (A), a follow-up report containing the following:“(i) An update to the initial report described in subparagraph (A).

“(ii) An assessment of whether and to what degree the content of the registry established under subsection (a) is current and scientifically up-to-date.



“(2) Submittal to congress.—“(A) Initial report.—Not later than two years after the date on which the registry under subsection (a) is established, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to Congress the initial report prepared under paragraph (1)(A).

“(B) Follow-up report.—Not later than five years after submitting the report under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to Congress the follow-up report prepared under paragraph (1)(B).



“(c) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Eligible individual.—The term ‘eligible individual’ means any individual who, on or after September 11, 2001—“(A) was deployed in support of a contingency operation while serving in the Armed Forces; and

“(B) during such deployment, was based or stationed at a location where an open burn pit was used.


“(2) Open burn pit.—The term ‘open burn pit’ means an area of land located in Afghanistan or Iraq that—“(A) is designated by the Secretary of Defense to be used for disposing solid waste by burning in the outdoor air; and

“(B) does not contain a commercially manufactured incinerator or other equipment specifically designed and manufactured for the burning of solid waste.”






Persian Gulf War Veterans’ Health StatusPub. L. 102–585, title VII, Nov. 4, 1992, 106 Stat. 4975, as amended by Pub. L. 103–446, title I, § 108, Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4653; Pub. L. 105–368, title I, §§ 104, 106, Nov. 11, 1998, 112 Stat. 3323, 3325; Pub. L. 111–163, title V, § 502, May 5, 2010, 124 Stat. 1157, provided that:
“SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.“This title may be cited as the ‘Persian Gulf War Veterans’ Health Status Act’.

