§ 1116. Agency performance reporting(a) The head of each agency shall make available on a public website of the agency and to the Office of Management and Budget an update on agency performance.

(b)(1) Each update shall compare actual performance achieved with the performance goals established in the agency performance plan under section 1115(b) and shall occur no less than 150 days after the end of each fiscal year, with more frequent updates of actual performance on indicators that provide data of significant value to the Government, Congress, or program partners at a reasonable level of administrative burden.

(2) If performance goals are specified in an alternative form under section 1115(c), the results shall be described in relation to such specifications, including whether the performance failed to meet the criteria of a minimally effective or successful program.


(c) Each update shall—(1) review the success of achieving the performance goals and include actual results for the 5 preceding fiscal years;

(2) evaluate the performance plan for the current fiscal year relative to the performance achieved toward the performance goals during the period covered by the update;

(3) explain and describe where a performance goal has not been met (including when a program activity’s performance is determined not to have met the criteria of a successful program activity under section 1115(c)(1)(A)(ii) or a corresponding level of achievement if another alternative form is used)—(A) why the goal was not met;

(B) those plans and schedules for achieving the established performance goal; and

(C) if the performance goal is impractical or infeasible, why that is the case and what action is recommended;


(4) describe the use and assess the effectiveness in achieving performance goals of any waiver under section 9703 11 See References in Text note below. of this title;

(5) include a review of the performance goals and evaluation of the performance plan relative to the agency’s strategic human capital management;

(6) describe how the agency ensures the accuracy and reliability of the data used to measure progress towards its performance goals, including an identification of—(A) the means used to verify and validate measured values;

(B) the sources for the data;

(C) the level of accuracy required for the intended use of the data;

(D) any limitations to the data at the required level of accuracy; and

(E) how the agency has compensated for such limitations if needed to reach the required level of accuracy; and


(7) include the summary findings of those program evaluations completed during the period covered by the update.


(d) If an agency performance update includes any program activity or information that is specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and is properly classified pursuant to such Executive Order, the head of the agency shall make such information available in the classified appendix provided under section 1115(e).

(e) The functions and activities of this section shall be considered to be inherently governmental functions. The drafting of agency performance updates under this section shall be performed only by Federal employees.

(f) Each fiscal year, the Office of Management and Budget shall determine whether the agency programs or activities meet performance goals and objectives outlined in the agency performance plans and submit a report on unmet goals to—(1) the head of the agency;

(2) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate;

(3) the Committee on Oversight and Governmental Reform of the House of Representatives; and

(4) the Government Accountability Office.


(g) If an agency’s programs or activities have not met performance goals as determined by the Office of Management and Budget for 1 fiscal year, the head of the agency shall submit a performance improvement plan to the Office of Management and Budget to increase program effectiveness for each unmet goal with measurable milestones. The agency shall designate a senior official who shall oversee the performance improvement strategies for each unmet goal.

(h)(1) If the Office of Management and Budget determines that agency programs or activities have unmet performance goals for 2 consecutive fiscal years, the head of the agency shall—(A) submit to Congress a description of the actions the Administration will take to improve performance, including proposed statutory changes or planned executive actions; and

(B) describe any additional funding the agency will obligate to achieve the goal, if such an action is determined appropriate in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, for an amount determined appropriate by the Director.


(2) In providing additional funding described under paragraph (1)(B), the head of the agency shall use any reprogramming or transfer authority available to the agency. If after exercising such authority additional funding is necessary to achieve the level determined appropriate by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the head of the agency shall submit a request to Congress for additional reprogramming or transfer authority.


(i) If an agency’s programs or activities have not met performance goals as determined by the Office of Management and Budget for 3 consecutive fiscal years, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit recommendations to Congress on actions to improve performance not later than 60 days after that determination, including—(1) reauthorization proposals for each program or activity that has not met performance goals;

(2) proposed statutory changes necessary for the program activities to achieve the proposed level of performance on each performance goal; and

(3) planned executive actions or identification of the program for termination or reduction in the President’s budget.


(Added Pub. L. 111–352, § 4, Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3871.)


References in TextSection 9703, referred to in subsec. (c)(4), probably means the section 9703 added by section 5(a) of Pub. L. 103–62, Aug. 3, 1993, 107 Stat. 289.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 1116, added Pub. L. 103–62, § 4(b), Aug. 3, 1993, 107 Stat. 288; amended Pub. L. 106–531, § 5(a)(1), (b), Nov. 22, 2000, 114 Stat. 2539; Pub. L. 107–296, title XIII, § 1311(b), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2290, related to program performance reports, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 111–352, § 4, Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3871.

Merit Systems Protection BoardPub. L. 112–199, title I, § 116(b), Nov. 27, 2012, 126 Stat. 1474, provided that:
“(1) In general.—Each report submitted annually by the Merit Systems Protection Board under section 1116 of title 31, United States Code, shall, with respect to the period covered by such report, include as an addendum the following:“(A) Information relating to the outcome of cases decided by the Merit Systems Protection Board during the period covered by such report in which violations of section 2302(b)(8) or (9)(A)(i), (B)(i), (C), or (D) of title 5, United States Code, were alleged.

“(B) The number of such cases filed in the regional and field offices, and the number of petitions for review filed in such cases, during the period covered by such report, and the outcomes of any such cases or petitions for review (irrespective of when filed) decided during such period.


“(2) First report.—The first report described under paragraph (1) submitted after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 27, 2012] shall include an addendum required under that paragraph that covers the period beginning on the effective date of this Act [see Effective Date of 2012 Amendment note set out under section 1204 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees] and ending at the end of the fiscal year in which such effective date occurs.”





