§ 567a. Flood and pollution control compacts between certain States
The consent of the Congress of the United States is given to the States of Maine, New York, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois, Tennessee, and Ohio, or any two or more of them, to negotiate and enter into agreements or compacts for conserving and regulating the flow, lessening flood damage, removing sources of pollution of the waters thereof, or making other public improvements on any rivers or streams whose drainage basins lie within any two or more of the said States.
No such compact or agreement shall be binding or obligatory upon any State a party thereto unless and until it has been approved by the legislatures of each of the States whose assent is contemplated by the terms of the compact or agreement and by the Congress.
(June 8, 1936, ch. 542, §§ 1, 2, 49 Stat. 1490.)

Approval of Compact by CongressAct July 11, 1940, ch. 581, 54 Stat. 752, provided in part that: “The consent and approval of Congress is hereby given to an interstate compact relating to the control and reduction of the pollution of the streams of the Ohio River drainage basin negotiated and entered into or to be entered into under authority of Public Resolution Numbered 104, Seventy-fourth Congress, approved June 8, 1936, [this section] and now ratified by the States of New York, Illinois, Kentucky, and Indiana, and by the State of Ohio (whose ratification is to go into effect at the time at which the States of New York, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia enter into said compact as parties and signatory States), also by the State of West Virginia (whose ratification is to go into effect at the time at which the States of New York, Ohio, Virginia, and Pennsylvania enter into said compact as parties and signatory States) * * *.”

“Sec. 2. Without further submission of said compact, the consent of Congress is hereby given to the State of Virginia or any other State with waters in the Ohio River drainage basin, entering into said compact as a signatory State and party in addition to the States therein named or any of them.
“Sec. 3. The commissioners to represent the United States, as provided in article IV of said compact, shall be appointed by the President.
“Sec. 4. Nothing contained in this Act or in the compact herein approved shall be construed as impairing or affecting the sovereignty of the United States or any of its rights or jurisdiction in and over the area or waters which are the subject of such compact.
“Sec. 5. The right to alter, amend, or repeal the provisions of section 1 is hereby expressly reserved.”


