§ 152605. Powers(a) In General.—The foundation may—(1) adopt a constitution and bylaws;

(2) adopt a seal which shall be judicially noticed; and

(3) do any other act necessary to carry out this chapter.


(b) Powers as Trustee.—To carry out its purposes, the foundation has the usual powers of a corporation acting as a trustee in the District of Columbia, including the power—(1) to accept, receive, solicit, hold, administer, and use any gift, devise, or bequest, either absolutely or in trust, of property or any income from or other interest in property;

(2) to acquire property or an interest in property by purchase or exchange;

(3) unless otherwise required by an instrument of transfer, to sell, donate, lease, invest, or otherwise dispose of any property or income from property;

(4) to borrow money and issue instruments of indebtedness;

(5) to make contracts and other arrangements with public agencies and private organizations and persons and to make payments necessary to carry out its functions;

(6) to sue and be sued; and

(7) to do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the purposes of the foundation.


(c) Encumbered or Restricted Gifts.—A gift, devise, or bequest may be accepted by the foundation even though it is encumbered, restricted, or subject to beneficial interests of private persons, if any current or future interest is for the benefit of the foundation.

(d) Contracts.—The foundation may enter into such contracts with public and private entities as it considers appropriate to carry out its purposes.

(e) Annual Conference in Washington Metropolitan Area.—During each year (beginning with 2003), the foundation may sponsor a conference in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area to honor secondary school students and other individuals who have served (or plan to serve) as poll workers and assistants and who have otherwise participated in the programs and activities of the foundation.

(Added Pub. L. 107–252, title VI, § 601(a), Oct. 29, 2002, 116 Stat. 1720.)
