“SEC. 1505. PERSONNEL MATTERS.“(a) Compensation of Members.—Each member of the commission who is not an officer or employee of the United States shall be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the commission. All members of the commission who are officers or employees of the United States shall serve without compensation in addition to that received for their services as officers or employees of the United States.

“(b) Travel Expenses.—The members of the commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the commission.

“(c) Staff.—(1) The chairman of the commission may, without regard to the civil service laws and regulations, appoint an executive director and such other personnel as may be necessary to enable the commission to perform its duties. The appointment of an executive director shall be subject to approval by the commission.

“(2) The chairman of the commission may fix the compensation of the executive director and other personnel without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to classification of positions and General Schedule pay rates, except that the rate of pay for the executive director and other personnel may not exceed the rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title.


“(d) Detail of Government Employees.—Upon request of the chairman of the commission, the head of any Federal department or agency may detail, on a nonreimbursable basis, any personnel of that department or agency to the commission to assist it in carrying out its duties.

“(e) Procurement of Temporary and Intermittent Services.—The chairman of the commission may procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals which do not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title.

