§ 2295. Compilation of laws; annual reports(a) Federal laws relating to improvements of rivers and harbors, flood control, beach erosion, and other water resources developmentWithin one year after November 17, 1986, the laws of the United States relating to the improvement of rivers and harbors, flood control, beach erosion, and other water resources development enacted after November 8, 1966, and before January 1, 1987, shall be compiled under the direction of the Secretary and the Chief of Engineers and printed for the use of the Department of the Army, the Congress, and the general public. The Secretary shall reprint the volumes containing such laws enacted before November 8, 1966. In addition, the Secretary shall include an index in each volume so compiled or reprinted. The Secretary shall transmit copies of each such volume to Congress.


(b) Annual reportThe Secretary shall prepare and submit the annual report required by section 556 of this title, in two volumes. Volume I shall consist of a summary and highlights of Corps of Engineers’ activities, authorities, and accomplishments. Volume II shall consist of detailed information and field reports on Corps of Engineers’ activities. The Secretary shall publish an index with each annual report.


(c) Biennial reports for each StateThe Secretary shall prepare biennially for public information a report for each State containing a description of each water resources project under the jurisdiction of the Secretary in such State and the status of each such project. Each report shall include an index. The report for each State shall be prepared in a separate volume. The reports under this subsection shall be published at the same time and the first such reports shall be published not later than one year after November 17, 1986.


(Pub. L. 99–662, title IX, § 925, Nov. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 4194.)

Compilation of LawsPub. L. 110–114, title II, § 2004, Nov. 8, 2007, 121 Stat. 1071, provided that:
“(a) Compilation of Laws Enacted After November 8, 1966.—The Secretary [of the Army] and the Chief of Engineers shall prepare a compilation of the laws of the United States relating to the improvement of rivers and harbors, flood damage reduction, beach and shoreline erosion, hurricane and storm damage reduction, ecosystem and environmental restoration, and other water resources development enacted after November 8, 1966, and before January 1, 2008, and have such compilation printed for the use of the Department of the Army, Congress, and the general public.

“(b) Reprint of Laws Enacted Before November 8, 1966.—The Secretary shall have the volumes containing the laws referred to in subsection (a) enacted before November 8, 1966, reprinted.

“(c) Index.—The Secretary shall include an index in each volume compiled, and each volume reprinted, pursuant to this section.

“(d) Congressional Copies.—Not later than April 1, 2008, the Secretary shall transmit at least 25 copies of each volume compiled, and of each volume reprinted, pursuant to this section to each of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.

“(e) Availability.—The Secretary [of the Army] shall ensure that each volume compiled, and each volume reprinted, pursuant to this section are available through electronic means, including on the Internet.”





