“SEC. 403. PRESIDENTIAL REPORTS.“(a) Reporting Requirement.—Not later than June 30, 1995, and every 6 months thereafter, the President shall transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a report concerning all guarantees issued to, and short-term and long-term currency swaps with, the Government of Mexico by the United States Government, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

“(b) Contents of Reports.—Each report described in subsection (a) shall contain a description of the following actions taken, or economic situations existing, during the preceding 6-month period or, in the case of the initial report, during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act [Apr. 10, 1995]:“(1) Changes in wage, price, and credit controls in the Mexican economy.

“(2) Changes in taxation policy of the Government of Mexico.

“(3) Specific actions taken by the Government of Mexico to further privatize the economy of Mexico.

“(4) Actions taken by the Government of Mexico in the development of regulatory policy that significantly affected the performance of the Mexican economy.

“(5) Consultations concerning the program approved by the President, including advice on economic, monetary, and fiscal policy, held between the Government of Mexico and the Secretary of the Treasury (including any designee of the Secretary) and the conclusions resulting from any periodic reviews undertaken by the International Monetary Fund pursuant to the Fund’s loan agreements with Mexico.

“(6) All outstanding loans, credits, and guarantees provided to the Government of Mexico, by the United States Government, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, set forth by category of financing.

“(7) The progress the Government of Mexico has made in stabilizing the peso and establishing an independent central bank or currency board.


“(c) Summary of Treasury Department Reports.—In addition to the information required to be included under subsection (b), each report required under this section shall contain a summary of the information contained in all reports submitted under section 404 during the period covered by the report required under this section.

