§ 3204. National tsunami hazard mitigation program(a) In generalThe Administrator, through the National Weather Service and in consultation with other relevant Administration offices, shall conduct a community-based tsunami hazard mitigation program to improve tsunami preparedness of at-risk areas in the United States and its territories.


(b) Coordinating committeeIn conducting the program under this section, the Administrator shall establish a coordinating committee comprising representatives of Federal, State, local, and tribal government officials. The Administrator may establish subcommittees to address region-specific issues. The committee shall—(1) recommend how funds appropriated for carrying out the program under this section will be allocated;

(2) ensure that areas described in section 3203(c) of this title in the United States and its territories can have the opportunity to participate in the program;

(3) provide recommendations to the National Weather Service on how to improve the TsunamiReady program, particularly on ways to make communities more tsunami resilient through the use of inundation maps and other mitigation practices; and

(4) ensure that all components of the program are integrated with ongoing hazard warning and risk management activities, emergency response plans, and mitigation programs in affected areas, including integrating information to assist in tsunami evacuation route planning.


(c) Program componentsThe program under this section shall—(1) use inundation models that meet a standard of accuracy defined by the Administration to improve the quality and extent of inundation mapping, including assessment of vulnerable inner coastal and nearshore areas, in a coordinated and standardized fashion to maximize resources and the utility of data collected;

(2) promote and improve community outreach and education networks and programs to ensure community readiness, including the development of comprehensive coastal risk and vulnerability assessment training and decision support tools, implementation of technical training and public education programs, and providing for certification of prepared communities;

(3) integrate tsunami preparedness and mitigation programs into ongoing hazard warning and risk management activities, emergency response plans, and mitigation programs in affected areas, including integrating information to assist in tsunami evacuation route planning;

(4) promote the adoption of tsunami warning and mitigation measures by Federal, State, tribal, and local governments and nongovernmental entities, including educational programs to discourage development in high-risk areas; and

(5) provide for periodic external review of the program.


(d) Savings clauseNothing in this section shall be construed to require a change in the chair of any existing tsunami hazard mitigation program subcommittee.


(Pub. L. 109–424, § 5, Dec. 20, 2006, 120 Stat. 2906; Pub. L. 109–479, title VIII, § 805, Jan. 12, 2007, 120 Stat. 3657.)

Codification
Pub. L. 109–424 and title VIII of Pub. L. 109–479 enacted substantially identical sections. This section is based on the text of section 805 of Pub. L. 109–479.


