§ 965. Brookwood-Sago Mine Safety Grants(a) In generalThe Secretary of Labor shall establish a program to award competitive grants for education and training, to be known as Brookwood-Sago Mine Safety Grants, to carry out the purposes of this section.


(b) PurposesIt is the purpose of this section,11 So in original. The comma probably should not appear. to provide for the funding of education and training programs to better identify, avoid, and prevent unsafe working conditions in and around mines.


(c) EligibilityTo be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall—(1) be a public or private nonprofit entity; and

(2) submit to the Secretary of Labor an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.


(d) Use of fundsAmounts received under a grant under this section shall be used to establish and implement education and training programs, or to develop training materials for employers and miners, concerning safety and health topics in mines, as determined appropriate by the Mine Safety and Health Administration.


(e) Awarding of grants(1) Annual basisGrants under this section shall be awarded on an annual basis.


(2) Special emphasisIn awarding grants under this section, the Secretary of Labor shall give special emphasis to programs and materials that target workers in smaller mines, including training miners and employers about new Mine Safety and Health Administration standards, high risk activities, or hazards identified by such Administration.


(3) PriorityIn awarding grants under this section, the Secretary of Labor shall give priority to the funding of pilot and demonstration projects that the Secretary determines will provide opportunities for broad applicability for mine safety.



(f) EvaluationThe Secretary of Labor shall use not less than 1 percent of the funds made available to carry out this section in a fiscal year to conduct evaluations of the projects funded under grants under this section.


(g) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated for each fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.


(Pub. L. 109–236, § 14, June 15, 2006, 120 Stat. 504.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006, also known as the MINER Act, and not as part of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 which comprises this chapter.


