§ 317. Command during joint exercises with Federal troops
When any part of the National Guard that is not in Federal service participates in an encampment, maneuver, or other exercise for instruction, together with troops in Federal service, the command of the post, air base, or other place where it is held, and of the troops in Federal service on duty there, remains with the officers in Federal service who command that place and the Federal troops on duty there, without regard to the rank of the officers of the National Guard not in Federal service who are temporarily participating in the exercise.
(Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 605.)











Historical and Revision Notes


Revised sectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


31732:72.June 3, 1916, ch. 134, § 95, 39 Stat. 207.


The words “not in Federal service” are inserted to show that the revised section applies only to joint exercises involving National Guard troops not in Federal service, since 32:72 was enacted before the establishment of the National Guard of the United States, in 1933. The words “troops in Federal service” are substituted for the words “troops of the United States”. The words “officers in Federal service who command” are substituted for the words “commander of the United States troops”. The words “post, air base, or other place” are substituted for the words “military post, or reservation, or elsewhere”. The words “that place and the Federal troops on duty there” are substituted for the words “there or elsewhere” The words “including outdoor target practice” and “field and coast defense instruction” are omitted as surplusage.

Usual and Customary ArrangementPub. L. 112–81, div. A, title V, § 515(c), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1395, provided that:
“(1) Dual-status commander.—When the Armed Forces and the National Guard are employed simultaneously in support of civil authorities in the United States, appointment of a commissioned officer as a dual-status commander serving on active duty and duty in, or with, the National Guard of a State under sections 315 or 325 of title 32, United States Code, as commander of Federal forces by Federal authorities and as commander of State National Guard forces by State authorities, should be the usual and customary command and control arrangement, including for missions involving a major disaster or emergency as those terms are defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122). The chain of command for the Armed Forces shall remain in accordance with sections 162(b) and 164(c) of title 10, United States Code.

“(2) State authorities supported.—When a major disaster or emergency occurs in any area subject to the laws of any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, the Governor of the State affected normally should be the principal civil authority supported by the primary Federal agency and its supporting Federal entities, and the Adjutant General of the State or his or her subordinate designee normally should be the principal military authority supported by the dual-status commander when acting in his or her State capacity.

“(3) Rule of construction.—Nothing in paragraphs (1) or (2) shall be construed to preclude or limit, in any way, the authorities of the President, the Secretary of Defense, or the Governor of any State to direct, control, and prescribe command and control arrangements for forces under their command.”





