§ 907. Medical services and supplies(a) General requirementThe employer shall furnish such medical, surgical, and other attendance or treatment, nurse and hospital service, medicine, crutches, and apparatus, for such period as the nature of the injury or the process of recovery may require.


(b) Physician selection; administrative supervision; change of physicians and hospitalsThe employee shall have the right to choose an attending physician authorized by the Secretary to provide medical care under this chapter as hereinafter provided. If, due to the nature of the injury, the employee is unable to select his physician and the nature of the injury requires immediate medical treatment and care, the employer shall select a physician for him. The Secretary shall actively supervise the medical care rendered to injured employees, shall require periodic reports as to the medical care being rendered to injured employees, shall have authority to determine the necessity, character, and sufficiency of any medical aid furnished or to be furnished, and may, on his own initiative or at the request of the employer, order a change of physicians or hospitals when in his judgment such change is desirable or necessary in the interest of the employee or where the charges exceed those prevailing within the community for the same or similar services or exceed the provider’s customary charges. Change of physicians at the request of employees shall be permitted in accordance with regulations of the Secretary.


(c) Physicians and health care providers not authorized to render medical care or provide medical services(1)(A) The Secretary shall annually prepare a list of physicians and health care providers in each compensation district who are not authorized to render medical care or provide medical services under this chapter. The names of physicians and health care providers contained on the list required under this subparagraph shall be made available to employees and employers in each compensation district through posting and in such other forms as the Secretary may prescribe.

(B) Physicians and health care providers shall be included on the list of those not authorized to provide medical care and medical services pursuant to subparagraph (A) when the Secretary determines under this section, in accordance with the procedures provided in subsection (j) of this section, that such physician or health care provider—(i) has knowingly and willfully made, or caused to be made, any false statement or misrepresentation of a material fact for use in a claim for compensation or claim for reimbursement of medical expenses under this chapter;

(ii) has knowingly and willfully submitted, or caused to be submitted, a bill or request for payment under this chapter containing a charge which the Secretary finds to be substantially in excess of the charge for the service, appliance, or supply prevailing within the community or in excess of the provider’s customary charges, unless the Secretary finds there is good cause for the bill or request containing the charge;

(iii) has knowingly and willfully furnished a service, appliance, or supply which is determined by the Secretary to be substantially in excess of the need of the recipient thereof or to be of a quality which substantially fails to meet professionally recognized standards;

(iv) has been convicted under any criminal statute (without regard to pending appeal thereof) for fraudulent activities in connection with any Federal or State program for which payments are made to physicians or providers of similar services, appliances, or supplies; or

(v) has otherwise been excluded from participation in such program.


(C) Medical services provided by physicians or health care providers who are named on the list published by the Secretary pursuant to subparagraph (A) of this section shall not be reimbursable under this chapter; except that the Secretary shall direct the reimbursement of medical claims for services rendered by such physicians or health care providers in cases where the services were rendered in an emergency.

(D) A determination under subparagraph (B) shall remain in effect for a period of not less than three years and until the Secretary finds and gives notice to the public that there is reasonable assurance that the basis for the determination will not reoccur.

(E) A provider of a service, appliance, or supply shall provide to the Secretary such information and certification as the Secretary may require to assure that this subsection is enforced.


(2) Whenever the employer or carrier acquires knowledge of the employee’s injury, through written notice or otherwise as prescribed by the chapter, the employer or carrier shall forthwith authorize medical treatment and care from a physician selected by an employee pursuant to subsection (b) of this section. An employee may not select a physician who is on the list required by paragraph (1) of this subsection. An employee may not change physicians after his initial choice unless the employer, carrier, or deputy commissioner has given prior consent for such change. Such consent shall be given in cases where an employee’s initial choice was not of a specialist whose services are necessary for and appropriate to the proper care and treatment of the compensable injury or disease. In all other cases, consent may be given upon a showing of good cause for change.


(d) Request of treatment or services prerequisite to recovery of expenses; formal report of injury and treatment; suspension of compensation for refusal of treatment or examination; justification(1) An employee shall not be entitled to recover any amount expended by him for medical or other treatment or services unless—(A) the employer shall have refused or neglected a request to furnish such services and the employee has complied with subsections (b) and (c) of this section and the applicable regulations; or

(B) the nature of the injury required such treatment and services and the employer or his superintendent or foreman having knowledge of such injury shall have neglected to provide or authorize same.


(2) No claim for medical or surgical treatment shall be valid and enforceable against such employer unless, within ten days following the first treatment, the physician giving such treatment furnishes to the employer and the deputy commissioner a report of such injury or treatment, on a form prescribed by the Secretary. The Secretary may excuse the failure to furnish such report within the ten-day period whenever he finds it to be in the interest of justice to do so.

(3) The Secretary may, upon application by a party in interest, make an award for the reasonable value of such medical or surgical treatment so obtained by the employee.

(4) If at any time the employee unreasonably refuses to submit to medical or surgical treatment, or to an examination by a physician selected by the employer, the Secretary or administrative law judge may, by order, suspend the payment of further compensation during such time as such refusal continues, and no compensation shall be paid at any time during the period of such suspension, unless the circumstances justified the refusal.


(e) Physical examination; medical questions; report of physical impairment; review or reexamination; costsIn the event that medical questions are raised in any case, the Secretary shall have the power to cause the employee to be examined by a physician employed or selected by the Secretary and to obtain from such physician a report containing his estimate of the employee’s physical impairment and such other information as may be appropriate. Any party who is dissatisfied with such report may request a review or reexamination of the employee by one or more different physicians employed or selected by the Secretary. The Secretary shall order such review or reexamination unless he finds that it is clearly unwarranted. Such review or reexamination shall be completed within two weeks from the date ordered unless the Secretary finds that because of extraordinary circumstances a longer period is required. The Secretary shall have the power in his discretion to charge the cost of examination or review under this subsection to the employer, if he is a self-insurer, or to the insurance company which is carrying the risk, in appropriate cases, or to the special fund in section 944 of this title.


(f) Place of examination; exclusion of physicians other than examining physician of Secretary; good cause for conclusions of other physicians respecting impairment; examination by employer’s physician; suspension of proceedings and compensation for refusal of examinationAn employee shall submit to a physical examination under subsection (e) of this section at such place as the Secretary may require. The place, or places, shall be designated by the Secretary and shall be reasonably convenient for the employee. No physician selected by the employer, carrier, or employee shall be present at or participate in any manner in such examination, nor shall conclusions of such physicians as to the nature or extent of impairment or the cause of impairment be available to the examining physician unless otherwise ordered, for good cause, by the Secretary. Such employer or carrier shall, upon request, be entitled to have the employee examined immediately thereafter and upon the same premises by a qualified physician or physicians in the presence of such physician as the employee may select, if any. Proceedings shall be suspended and no compensation shall be payable for any period during which the employee may refuse to submit to examination.


(g) Fees and charges for examinations, treatment, or service; limitation; regulationsAll fees and other charges for medical examinations, treatment, or service shall be limited to such charges as prevail in the community for such treatment, and shall be subject to regulation by the Secretary. The Secretary shall issue regulations limiting the nature and extent of medical expenses chargeable against the employer without authorization by the employer or the Secretary.


(h) Third party liabilityThe liability of an employer for medical treatment as herein provided shall not be affected by the fact that his employee was injured through the fault or negligence of a third party not in the same employ, or that suit has been brought against such third party. The employer shall, however, have a cause of action against such third party to recover any amounts paid by him for such medical treatment in like manner as provided in section 933(b) of this title.


(i) Physicians’ ineligibility for subsection (e) physical examinations and reviews because of workmen’s compensation claim employment or fee acceptance or participationUnless the parties to the claim agree, the Secretary shall not employ or select any physician for the purpose of making examinations or reviews under subsection (e) of this section who, during such employment, or during the period of two years prior to such employment, has been employed by, or accepted or participated in any fee relating to a workmen’s compensation claim from any insurance carrier or any self-insurer.


(j) Procedure; judicial review(1) The Secretary shall have the authority to make rules and regulations and to establish procedures, not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, which are necessary or appropriate to carry out the provisions of subsection (c) of this section, including the nature and extent of the proof and evidence necessary for actions under this section and the methods of taking and furnishing such proof and evidence.

(2) Any decision to take action with respect to a physician or health care provider under this section shall be based on specific findings of fact by the Secretary. The Secretary shall provide notice of these findings and an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to section 556 of title 5 for a provider who would be affected by a decision under this section. A request for a hearing must be filed with the Secretary within thirty days after notice of the findings is received by the provider making such request. If a hearing is held, the Secretary shall, on the basis of evidence adduced at the hearing, affirm, modify, or reverse the findings of fact and proposed action under this section.

(3) For the purpose of any hearing, investigation, or other proceeding authorized or directed under this section, the provisions of section 11 So in original. Probably should be “sections”. 49 and 50 of title 15 (relating to the attendance of witnesses and the production of books, papers, and documents) shall apply to the jurisdiction, powers, and duties of the Secretary or any officer designated by him.

(4) Any physician or health care provider, after any final decision of the Secretary made after a hearing to which he was a party, irrespective of the amount in controversy, may obtain a review of such decision by a civil action commenced within sixty days after the mailing to him of notice of such decision, but the pendency of such review shall not operate as a stay upon the effect of such decision. Such action shall be brought in the court of appeals of the United States for the judicial circuit in which the plaintiff resides or has his principal place of business, or the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. As part of his answer, the Secretary shall file a certified copy of the transcript of the record of the hearing, including all evidence submitted in connection therewith. The findings of fact of the Secretary, if based on substantial evidence in the record as a whole, shall be conclusive.


(k) Refusal of treatment on religious grounds(1) Nothing in this chapter prevents an employee whose injury or disability has been established under this chapter from relying in good faith on treatment by prayer or spiritual means alone, in accordance with the tenets and practice of a recognized church or religious denomination, by an accredited practitioner of such recognized church or religious denomination, and on nursing services rendered in accordance with such tenets and practice, without suffering loss or diminution of the compensation or benefits under this chapter. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to except an employee from all physical examinations required by this chapter.

(2) If an employee refuses to submit to medical or surgical services solely because, in adherence to the tenets and practice of a recognized church or religious denomination, the employee relies upon prayer or spiritual means alone for healing, such employee shall not be considered to have unreasonably refused medical or surgical treatment under subsection (d) of this section.


(Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 509, § 7, 44 Stat. 1427; May 26, 1934, ch. 354, § 1, 48 Stat. 806; June 25, 1938, ch. 685, §§ 2, 3, 52 Stat. 1165; Pub. L. 86–757, Sept. 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 900; Pub. L. 92–576, § 6, Oct. 27, 1972, 86 Stat. 1254; Pub. L. 98–426, § 7, Sept. 28, 1984, 98 Stat. 1642.)

Amendments1984—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 98–426, § 7(a), inserted “or where the charges exceed those prevailing within the community for the same or similar services or exceed the provider’s customary charges”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 98–426, § 7(b), substituted provisions respecting physicians and health care providers not authorized to render medical care or services under this chapter for former provision respecting physicians designated by the Secretary as authorized to render such care and whose names shall be available to employees through posting or in such other form as the Secretary may prescribe.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 98–426, § 7(c), substituted provisions for the recovery by the employee of amounts spent on medical services which the employer failed to provide; for the procedure to be followed for recovery; and for suspension of any payments made if the employee unreasonably refuses to submit to treatment or examination for former provisions which required a request for treatment or services and the filing of a physician’s report for recovery, and permitted the Secretary to excuse a failure to file a report when justified and to suspend payment if the employee unreasonably refuses treatment or examination.
Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 98–426, § 7(d), added subsec. (j).
Subsec. (k). Pub. L. 98–426, § 7(e), added subsec. (k).
1972—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 92–576 reenacted provisions without change.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 92–576, substituted provisions for employee’s choosing of an attending physician authorized by the Secretary, for prior provisions for such a choosing from a panel of physicians named by the employer and employer’s selection of a physician for an employee when nature of injury requires immediate medical treatment and care for prior provisions for employer’s selection of a physician from the panel; required Secretary’s supervision of medical care rendered and periodic reports of medical care furnished; provided for initiative of the Secretary or the request of the employer for making change of hospitals or physicians and that the change be in the interest of the employee; provided for change of physicians pursuant to regulations of the Secretary; and deleted prior provision authorizing a second choice of a physician from the panel and for selection of physicians for specialized services.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 92–576 substituted provisions respecting Secretary’s designation of physicians in community authorized to render medical care and posting of their names for prior provisions respecting deputy commissioner’s determination of size of panel of physicians (named by employer) following statutory criteria and approval of their qualifications, and requirement of posting of names and addresses of physicians so as to afford reasonable notice.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 92–576 substituted the Secretary for the deputy commissioner as the person to exercise the various authorities, struck out introductory provisions respecting employer’s failure to maintain a panel of physicians for examination purposes or to permit the employee to choose an attending physician from the panel and employee’s procurement of treatment and services and selection of a physician at expense of employer, decreased from twenty to ten days the period within which to make the formal report of injury and treatment, and authorized suspension of compensation for refusal to submit to an examination by a physician of the employer.
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 92–576 substituted provisions respecting physical examination to determine medical questions by a physician employed or selected by the Secretary, such physician’s report of the physical impairment, review or reexamination of the employee, and the charging of costs to an employer, who is a self-insurer, or the insurance company carrying the risk or the special fund for prior provisions respecting examination of employee by a physician selected by the deputy commissioner (who shall submit a report of the disability) whenever the deputy commissioner was of the opinion that the employer’s physician was partial in his estimate of the degree of permanent disability or the extent of temporary disability and charging cost of examination to the employer, if he was a self-insurer, or to the insurance company which was carrying the risk when the physician’s estimate was not impartial.
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 92–576 added subsec. (f). Former subsec. (f) redesignated (g).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 92–576 redesignated former subsec. (f) as (g) and substituted “medical examinations, treatment, or service” for “such treatment or service”, “charges as prevail in the community for such treatment” for “charges as prevail in the same community for similar treatment of injured persons of like standard of living”, “regulation by the Secretary” for “regulation by the deputy commissioner”, and prescribed issuance of regulations respecting medical expenses chargeable against employer. Former subsec. (g) redesignated (h).
Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 92–576 redesignated former subsec. (g) as (h) and inserted “that” before “suit”.
Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 92–576 added subsec. (i).
1960—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 86–757 designated first sentence as subsec. (a). Remainder of former subsec. (a) redesignated (d).
Subsecs. (b), (c). Pub. L. 86–757 added subsecs. (b) and (c). Former subsecs. (b) and (c) redesignated (e) and (f).
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 86–757 redesignated all but first sentence of former subsec. (a) as (d), substituting “If the employer fails to provide the medical or other treatment, services, and supplies required to be furnished by subsec. (a) of this section, after request by the injured employee, or fails to maintain a panel of physicians as required by subsec. (c) of this section, or fails to permit the employee to choose an attending physician from such panel, such injured employee may procure such medical or other treatment, services, and supplies and select a physician to render treatment and services at the expense of the employer” for “If the employer fails to provide the same, after request by the injured employee, such injured employee may do so at the expense of the employer.” Former subsec. (d) redesignated (g).
Subsecs. (e) to (g). Pub. L. 86–757 redesignated former subsecs. (b) to (d) as (e) to (g), striking out “unless and until notice of election to sue has been given as required by section 933(a) of this title” and “without the giving of such notice” before and after “or suit has been brought against such third party” in subsec. (g).
1938—Subsec. (a). Act June 25, 1938, § 2, authorized deputy commissioner to excuse failure to furnish prescribed medical report.
Subsec. (d). Act June 25, 1938, § 3, added subsec. (d).
1934—Subsec. (a). Act May 26, 1934, authorized deputy commissioner to suspend payment of compensation for refusal, without justification, to submit to medical or surgical treatment.

Effective Date of 1984 AmendmentAmendment by section 7(a), (e) of Pub. L. 98–426 effective 90 days after Sept. 28, 1984, and applicable both with respect to claims filed after such 90th day and to claims pending on such 90th day, and amendment by section 7(b)–(d) of Pub. L. 98–426 effective 90 days after Sept. 28, 1984, see section 28(b), (e)(2) of Pub. L. 98–426, set out as a note under section 901 of this title.

Effective Date of 1972 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 92–576 effective 30 days after Oct. 27, 1972, see section 22 of Pub. L. 92–576, set out as a note under section 902 of this title.

Claims Filed Under Black Lung Benefits ActPub. L. 98–426, § 28(h)(1), Sept. 28, 1984, 98 Stat. 1655, provided that: “The amendments made by section 7 of this Act [amending this section] shall not apply to claims filed under the Black Lung Benefits Act (30 U.S.C. 901 et seq.).”



