§ 2350. Corrosion prevention(a) In generalTo the greatest extent practicable, the Secretary shall encourage and incorporate corrosion prevention activities at water resources development projects.


(b) ActivitiesIn carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary, to the greatest extent practicable, shall ensure that contractors performing work for water resources development projects—(1) use best practices to carry out corrosion prevention activities in the field;

(2) use industry-recognized standards and corrosion mitigation and prevention methods when—(A) determining protective coatings;

(B) selecting materials; and

(C) determining methods of cathodic protection, design, and engineering for corrosion prevention;


(3) use certified coating application specialists and cathodic protection technicians and engineers;

(4) use best practices in environmental protection to prevent environmental degradation and to ensure careful handling of all hazardous materials;

(5) demonstrate a history of employing industry-certified inspectors to ensure adherence to best practices and standards; and

(6) demonstrate a history of compliance with applicable requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.


(c) Corrosion prevention activities definedIn this section, the term “corrosion prevention activities” means—(1) the application and inspection of protective coatings for complex work involving steel and cementitious structures, including structures that will be exposed in immersion;

(2) the installation, testing, and inspection of cathodic protection systems; and

(3) any other activities related to corrosion prevention the Secretary determines appropriate.


(Pub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1033, June 10, 2014, 128 Stat. 1233.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.


“Secretary” Defined
Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.


