§ 408a. Expediting approval of modifications and alterations of projects by non-Federal interests(a) Section 14 application definedIn this section, the term “section 14 application” means an application submitted by an applicant to the Secretary requesting permission for the temporary occupation or use of a public work, or the alteration or permanent occupation or use of a public work, under section 14 of the Act of March 3, 1899 (commonly known as the “Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act of 1899”) (33 U.S.C. 408).


(b) ReviewNot later than 1 year after June 10, 2014, the Secretary, after providing notice and an opportunity for comment, shall establish a process for the review of section 14 applications in a timely and consistent manner.


(c) Benchmark goals(1) Establishment of benchmark goalsIn carrying out subsection (b), the Secretary shall—(A) establish benchmark goals for determining the amount of time it should take the Secretary to determine whether a section 14 application is complete;

(B) establish benchmark goals for determining the amount of time it should take the Secretary to approve or disapprove a section 14 application; and

(C) to the extent practicable, use such benchmark goals to make a decision on section 14 applications in a timely and consistent manner.


(2) Benchmark goals(A) Benchmark goals for determining whether section 14 applications are completeTo the extent practicable, the benchmark goals established under paragraph (1) shall provide that—(i) the Secretary reach a decision on whether a section 14 application is complete not later than 15 days after the date of receipt of the application; and

(ii) if the Secretary determines that a section 14 application is not complete, the Secretary promptly notify the applicant of the specific information that is missing or the analysis that is needed to complete the application.


(B) Benchmark goals for reviewing completed applicationsTo the extent practicable, the benchmark goals established under paragraph (1) shall provide that—(i) the Secretary generally approve or disapprove a completed section 14 application not later than 45 days after the date of receipt of the completed application; and

(ii) in a case in which the Secretary determines that additional time is needed to review a completed section 14 application due to the type, size, cost, complexity, or impacts of the actions proposed in the application, the Secretary generally approve or disapprove the application not later than 180 days after the date of receipt of the completed application.



(3) NoticeIn any case in which the Secretary determines that it will take the Secretary more than 45 days to review a completed section 14 application, the Secretary shall—(A) provide written notification to the applicant; and

(B) include in the written notice a best estimate of the Secretary as to the amount of time required for completion of the review.



(d) Failure to achieve benchmark goalsIn any case in which the Secretary fails make 11 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “to”. a decision on a section 14 application in accordance with the process established under this section, the Secretary shall provide written notice to the applicant, including a detailed description of—(1) why the Secretary failed to make a decision in accordance with such process;

(2) the additional actions required before the Secretary will issue a decision; and

(3) the amount of time the Secretary will require to issue a decision.


(e) Notification(1) Submission to CongressThe Secretary shall provide a copy of any written notice provided under subsection (d) to the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.


(2) Public availabilityThe Secretary shall maintain a publicly available database, including on the Internet, on—(A) all section 14 applications received by the Secretary; and

(B) the current status of such applications.



(Pub. L. 113–121, title I, § 1007, June 10, 2014, 128 Stat. 1214.)


“Secretary” Defined
Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of Pub. L. 113–121, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.


