“SEC. 1602. GULF COAST RESTORATION TRUST FUND.“(a) Establishment.—There is established in the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the ‘Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund’ (referred to in this section as the ‘Trust Fund’), consisting of such amounts as are deposited in the Trust Fund under this Act [probably means this subtitle] or any other provision of law.

“(b) Transfers.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit in the Trust Fund an amount equal to 80 percent of all administrative and civil penalties paid by responsible parties after the date of enactment of this Act [July 6, 2012] in connection with the explosion on, and sinking of, the mobile offshore drilling unit Deepwater Horizon pursuant to a court order, negotiated settlement, or other instrument in accordance with section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321).

“(c) Expenditures.—Amounts in the Trust Fund, including interest earned on advances to the Trust Fund and proceeds from investment under subsection (d), shall—“(1) be available for expenditure, without further appropriation, solely for the purpose and eligible activities of this subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle [amending this section]; and

“(2) remain available until expended, without fiscal year limitation.


“(d) Investment.—Amounts in the Trust Fund shall be invested in accordance with section 9702 of title 31, United States Code, and any interest on, and proceeds from, any such investment shall be available for expenditure in accordance with this subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle.

“(e) Administration.—Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, after providing notice and an opportunity for public comment, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce, shall establish such procedures as the Secretary determines to be necessary to deposit amounts in, and expend amounts from, the Trust Fund pursuant to this subtitle, including—“(1) procedures to assess whether the programs and activities carried out under this subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle achieve compliance with applicable requirements, including procedures by which the Secretary of the Treasury may determine whether an expenditure by a Gulf Coast State or coastal political subdivision (as those terms are defined in section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321)) pursuant to such a program or activity achieves compliance;

“(2) auditing requirements to ensure that amounts in the Trust Fund are expended as intended; and

“(3) procedures for identification and allocation of funds available to the Secretary under other provisions of law that may be necessary to pay the administrative expenses directly attributable to the management of the Trust Fund.


“(f) Sunset.—The authority for the Trust Fund shall terminate on the date all funds in the Trust Fund have been expended.

