“SEC. 105. PILOT PROGRAM FOR INTERNET-BASED SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER TREATMENT FOR VETERANS OF OPERATION IRAQI FREEDOM AND OPERATION ENDURING FREEDOM.“(a) Findings.—Congress makes the following findings:“(1) Stigma associated with seeking treatment for mental health disorders has been demonstrated to prevent some veterans from seeking such treatment at a medical facility operated by the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans Affairs.

“(2) There is a significant incidence among veterans of post-deployment mental health problems, especially among members of a reserve component who return as veterans to civilian life.

“(3) Computer-based self-guided training has been demonstrated to be an effective strategy for supplementing the care of psychological conditions.

“(4) Younger veterans, especially those who served in Operation Enduring Freedom or Operation Iraqi Freedom, are comfortable with and proficient at computer-based technology.

“(5) Veterans living in rural areas may find access to treatment for substance use disorder limited.

“(6) Self-assessment and treatment options for substance use disorders through an Internet website may reduce stigma and provides additional access for individuals seeking care and treatment for such disorders.


“(b) In General.—Not later than October 1, 2009, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of providing veterans who seek treatment for substance use disorders access to a computer-based self-assessment, education, and specified treatment program through a secure Internet website operated by the Secretary. Participation in the pilot program shall be available on a voluntary basis for those veterans who have served in Operation Enduring Freedom or Operation Iraqi Freedom.

“(c) Elements of Pilot Program.—“(1) In general.—In carrying out the pilot program under this section, the Secretary shall ensure that—“(A) access to the Internet website and the programs available on the website by a veteran (or family member) does not involuntarily generate an identifiable medical record of that access by that veteran in any medical database maintained by the Department of Veterans Affairs;

“(B) the Internet website is accessible from remote locations, especially rural areas; and

“(C) the Internet website includes a self-assessment tool for substance use disorders, self-guided treatment and educational materials for such disorders, and appropriate information and materials for family members of veterans.


“(2) Consideration of similar projects.—In designing the pilot program under this section, the Secretary shall consider similar pilot projects of the Department of Defense for the early diagnosis and treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions established under section 741 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act of [for] Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109–364; 120 Stat. 2304) [10 U.S.C. 1074 note].

“(3) Location of pilot program.—The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program through those medical centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs that have established Centers for Excellence for Substance Abuse Treatment and Education or that have established a Substance Abuse Program Evaluation and Research Center.

“(4) Contract authority.—The Secretary may enter into contracts with qualified entities or organizations to carry out the pilot program required under this section.


“(d) Duration of Pilot Program.—The pilot program required by subsection (a) shall be carried out during the two-year period beginning on the date of the commencement of the pilot program.

“(e) Report.—Not later than six months after the completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the pilot program, and shall include in that report—an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of continuing or expanding the pilot program, of any cost savings or other benefits associated with the pilot program, and any other recommendations.

“(f) Authorization of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs $1,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2010 and 2011 to carry out the pilot program under this section.”

