“SEC. 705. COMMISSION PERSONNEL MATTERS.“(a) Compensation of Members.—Each member of the Commission may be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time) during which such member is engaged in performing the duties of the Commission.

“(b) Travel and Travel Expenses.—(1) Members and personnel of the Commission may travel on military aircraft, military vehicles, or other military conveyances when travel is necessary in the performance of a duty of the Commission except when the cost of commercial transportation is less expensive.

“(2) The members of the Commission may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission.


“(c) Staff.—(1) The chairman of the Commission may, without regard to civil service laws and regulations, appoint and terminate an executive director and up to five additional staff members as may be necessary to enable the Commission to perform its duties. In appointing an individual as executive director, the chairman shall, to the maximum extent practicable, attempt to appoint an individual who is a veteran. The employment of an executive director shall be subject to confirmation by the Commission.

“(2) The chairman of the Commission may fix the compensation of the executive director and other personnel without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to classification of positions and General Schedule pay rates, except that the rate of pay for the executive director and other staff members may not exceed the rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title.


“(d) Detail of Government Employees.—Upon request of the chairman of the Commission, the head of any department or agency of the Government may detail, on a nonreimbursable basis, any personnel of the department or agency to the Commission to assist the Commission in carrying out its duties.

“(e) Procurement of Temporary and Intermittent Services.—The chairman of the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals which do not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of such title.

