§ 1126. Scientific and technical education(a) Congressional declaration of policyIt is the policy of the Congress to encourage the development and maintenance of programs through which there may be provided the necessary trained personnel to perform required geothermal research, development, and demonstration activities under sections 1123, 1124, and 1125 of this title.


(b) Support of educational programs in science and engineeringThe National Science Foundation is authorized to support programs of education in the sciences and engineering to carry out the policy of subsection (a) of this section. Such support may include fellowships, traineeships, technical training programs, technologist training programs, and summer institute programs.


(c) Selection of programs of education; coordination with National Science FoundationThe National Science Foundation is authorized and directed to coordinate its actions, to the maximum extent practicable, with the Project or any permanent Federal organization or agency having jurisdiction over the energy research and development functions of the United States, in determining the optimal selection of programs of education to carry out the policy of subsection (a) of this section.


(d) International participation and cooperationThe National Science Foundation is authorized to encourage, to the maximum extent practicable international participation and cooperation in the development and maintenance of programs of education to carrying out the policy of subsection (a) of this section.


(Pub. L. 93–410, title I, § 106, Sept. 3, 1974, 88 Stat. 1085.)


Transfer of Functions
Functions of National Science Foundation relating to geothermal power development transferred to Administrator of Energy Research and Development Administration (unless otherwise specifically provided) by section 5814 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. Energy Research and Development Administration terminated and functions vested by law in Administrator thereof transferred to Secretary of Energy (unless otherwise specifically provided) by sections 7151(a) and 7293 of Title 42.


