§ 454. Travel and transportation: pilot programs(a) Pilot Programs.—Except as otherwise prohibited by law, the Secretary of Defense may conduct pilot programs to evaluate alternative travel and transportation programs, policies, and processes for Department of Defense authorized travelers. Any such pilot program shall be designed to enhance cost savings or other efficiencies that accrue to the Government and be conducted so as to evaluate one or more of the following:(1) Alternative methods for performing and reimbursing travel.

(2) Means for limiting the need for travel.

(3) Means for reducing the environmental impact of travel.


(b) Limitations.—(1) Not more than three pilot programs may be carried out under subsection (a) at any one time.

(2) The duration of a pilot program may not exceed four years.

(3) The authority to carry out a pilot program is subject to the availability of appropriated funds.


(c) Reports.—(1) Not later than 30 days before the commencement of a pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot program. The report on a pilot program under this paragraph shall set forth a description of the pilot program, including the following:(A) The purpose of the pilot program.

(B) The duration of the pilot program.

(C) The cost savings or other efficiencies anticipated to accrue to the Government under the pilot program.


(2) Not later than 60 days after the completion of a pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the pilot program. The report on a pilot program under this paragraph shall set forth the following:(A) A description of results of the pilot program.

(B) Such recommendations for legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the pilot program.



(d) Congressional Defense Committees Defined.—In this section, the term “congressional defense committees” has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10.

(Added Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title VI, § 631(b), Dec. 31, 2011, 125 Stat. 1458.)
