§ 2324. Reduced pricing for certain water supply storage(a) Provision of storage spaceIf a low income community requests the Secretary to provide water supply storage space in a water resources development project operated by the Secretary and if the amount of space requested is available or could be made available through reallocation of water supply storage space in the project or through modifications to operation of the project, the Secretary may provide such space to the community at a price determined under subsection (c) of this section.


(b) Maximum amount of storage spaceThe maximum amount of water supply storage space which may be provided to a community under this section may not exceed an amount of water supply storage space sufficient to yield 2,000,000 gallons of water per day.


(c) PriceThe Secretary shall provide water supply storage space under this section at a price which is the greater of—(1) the updated construction cost of the project allocated to provide such amount of water supply storage space or $100 per acre foot of storage space, whichever is less; and

(2) the value of the benefits which are lost as a result of providing such water supply storage space.


(d) DeterminationsFor purposes of subsection (c) of this section, the determinations of updated construction costs and value of benefits lost shall be made by the Secretary on the basis of the most recent information available.


(e) Inflation adjustment of dollar amountThe $100 amount set forth in subsection (c) of this section shall be adjusted annually by the Secretary for changes in the Consumer Price Index of All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.


(f) Non-Federal responsibilitiesNothing in this section shall be construed as affecting the responsibility of non-Federal interests to provide operation and maintenance costs assigned to water supply storage provided under this section.


(g) “Low income community” definedThe term “low income community” means a community with a population of less than 20,000 which is located in a county with a per capita income less than the per capita income of two-thirds of the counties in the United States.


(Pub. L. 101–640, title III, § 322, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4643.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1990, and not as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 which comprises this chapter.


“Secretary” Defined
Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of Pub. L. 101–640, set out as a note under section 2201 of this title.


