“SEC. 5. DUTIES OF FEDERAL AGENCIES.“(a) In General.—Except as provided under subsection (b), not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 20, 1999], each Federal agency shall develop and implement a plan that—“(1) streamlines and simplifies the application, administrative, and reporting procedures for Federal financial assistance programs administered by the agency;

“(2) demonstrates active participation in the interagency process under section 6(a)(2);

“(3) demonstrates appropriate agency use, or plans for use, of the common application and reporting system developed under section 6(a)(1);

“(4) designates a lead agency official for carrying out the responsibilities of the agency under this Act;

“(5) allows applicants to electronically apply for, and report on the use of, funds from the Federal financial assistance program administered by the agency;

“(6) ensures recipients of Federal financial assistance provide timely, complete, and high quality information in response to Federal reporting requirements; and

“(7) in cooperation with recipients of Federal financial assistance, establishes specific annual goals and objectives to further the purposes of this Act and measure annual performance in achieving those goals and objectives, which may be done as part of the agency’s annual planning responsibilities under the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 (Public Law 103–62; 107 Stat. 285) [see Short Title of 1993 Amendment note set out under section 1101 of this title].


“(b) Extension.—If a Federal agency is unable to comply with subsection (a), the Director may extend for up to 12 months the period for the agency to develop and implement a plan in accordance with subsection (a).

“(c) Comment and Consultation on Agency Plans.—“(1) Comment.—Each agency shall publish the plan developed under subsection (a) in the Federal Register and shall receive public comment of the plan through the Federal Register and other means (including electronic means). To the maximum extent practicable, each Federal agency shall hold public forums on the plan.

“(2) Consultation.—The lead official designated under subsection (a)(4) shall consult with representatives of non-Federal entities during development and implementation of the plan. Consultation with representatives of State, local, and tribal governments shall be in accordance with section 204 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1534).


“(d) Submission of Plan.—Each Federal agency shall submit the plan developed under subsection (a) to the Director and Congress and report annually thereafter on the implementation of the plan and performance of the agency in meeting the goals and objectives specified under subsection (a)(7). Such report may be included as part of any of the general management reports required under law.

