“SEC. 103. EXPANSION OF SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER TREATMENT SERVICES PROVIDED BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.“(a) In General.—The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure the provision of such services and treatment to each veteran enrolled in the health care system of the Department of Veterans Affairs who is in need of services and treatments for a substance use disorder as follows:“(1) Screening for substance use disorder in all settings, including primary care settings.

“(2) Short term motivational counseling services.

“(3) Marital and family counseling.

“(4) Intensive outpatient or residential care services.

“(5) Relapse prevention services.

“(6) Ongoing aftercare and outpatient counseling services.

“(7) Opiate substitution therapy services.

“(8) Pharmacological treatments aimed at reducing craving for drugs and alcohol.

“(9) Detoxification and stabilization services.

“(10) Coordination with groups providing peer to peer counseling.

“(11) Such other services as the Secretary considers appropriate.


“(b) Provision of Services.—“(1) Allocation of resources for provision of services.—The Secretary shall ensure that amounts made available for care, treatment, and services provided under this section are allocated in such a manner that a full continuum of care, treatment, and services described in subsection (a) is available to veterans seeking such care, treatment, or services, without regard to the location of the residence of any such veterans.

“(2) Manner of provision.—The services and treatment described in subsection (a) may be provided to a veteran described in such subsection—“(A) at Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers or clinics;

“(B) by referral to other facilities of the Department that are accessible to such veteran; or

“(C) by contract or fee-for-service payments with community-based organizations for the provision of such services and treatments.



“(c) Alternatives in Case of Services Denied Due to Clinical Necessity.—If the Secretary denies the provision to a veteran of services or treatment for a substance use disorder due to clinical necessity, the Secretary shall provide the veteran such other services or treatment as are medically appropriate.

