§ 1142. Payment of guaranteed obligation by Secretary of Energy(a) Default by borrower and demand by holder of obligation of unpaid amount; amount of payment by Secretary of Energy; defenses available; forebearance by holder of obligationIf there is a default by the borrower, as defined in regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Energy and set forth in the guarantee contract, the holder of the obligation shall have the right to demand payment of the unpaid amount from the Secretary of Energy. Within such period as may be specified in the guarantee or related agreements, the Secretary of Energy shall pay to the holder of the obligation the unpaid interest on, and unpaid principal of the guaranteed obligation as to which the borrower has defaulted, unless the Secretary of Energy finds that there was no default by the borrower in the payment of interest or principal or that such default has been remedied. Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude any forebearance by the holder of the obligation for the benefit of the borrower which may be agreed upon by the parties to the guaranteed obligation and approved by the Secretary of Energy.


(b) Rights and authorities of Secretary of Energy upon paymentIf the Secretary of Energy makes a payment under subsection (a) of this subsection,11 So in original. Probably should be “this section,”. the Secretary of Energy shall be subrogated to the rights of the recipient of such payment as specified in the guarantee or related agreements including, where appropriate, the authority (notwithstanding any other provision of law) to complete, maintain, operate, lease, or otherwise dispose of any property acquired pursuant to such guarantee or related agreements, or to permit the borrower, pursuant to an agreement with the Secretary of Energy, to continue to pursue the purposes of the project if the Secretary of Energy determines this to be in the public interest. The rights of the Secretary of Energy with respect to any property acquired pursuant to such guarantee or related agreements, shall be superior to the rights of any other person with respect to such property.


(c) Rights and authorities of Attorney General upon default on any guaranteeIn the event of a default on any guarantee under this subchapter, the Secretary of Energy shall notify the Attorney General, who shall take such action as may be appropriate to recover the amounts of any payments made under subsection (a) of this section, including any payment of principal and interest under subsection (d) of this section, from such assets of the defaulting borrower as are associated with the project, or from any other security included in the terms of the guarantee.


(d) Contracts to pay, and payment, from Geothermal Resources Development Fund of principal and interest of unpaid balance of obligation; preconditionsWith respect to any obligation guaranteed under this subchapter, the Secretary of Energy is authorized to enter into a contract to pay, and to pay, holders of the obligation, for and on behalf of the borrower, from the Geothermal Resources Development Fund, the principal and interest payments which become due and payable on the unpaid balance of such obligation if the Secretary of Energy finds that—(1) the borrower is unable to meet such payments and is not in default; it is in the public interest to permit the borrower to continue to pursue the purposes of such project; and the probable net benefit to the Federal Government in paying such principal and interest will be greater than that which would result in the event of a default;

(2) the amount of such payment which the Secretary of Energy is authorized to pay shall be no greater than the amount of principal and interest which the borrower is obligated to pay under the loan agreement; and

(3) the borrower agrees to reimburse the Secretary of Energy for such payment on terms and conditions, including interest, which are satisfactory to the Secretary of Energy.


(Pub. L. 93–410, title II, § 202, Sept. 3, 1974, 88 Stat. 1087; Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301(a), title VII, §§ 703, 707, Aug. 4, 1977, 91 Stat. 577, 606, 607; Pub. L. 95–238, title V, § 510, Feb. 25, 1978, 92 Stat. 88.)

Amendments1978—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95–238 substituted provisions relating to default by the borrower and payment by the Administrator of the guaranteed amount remaining unpaid upon demand by the holder of the obligation, for provisions relating to contracts to pay, and payment, by the head of the designated agency to the lender on behalf of the borrower of interest charges on the unpaid balance of any guaranteed loan where the borrower is unable to meet the interest charges and the amount payable is the same as the amount the borrower would be required to pay.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95–238 substituted provisions relating to rights and authorities of the Administrator subsequent to making a payment under subsec. (a) of this section, for provisions relating to rights and authorities of the head of the designated agency and the Attorney General upon payment of the guaranty subsequent to default on a guaranteed loan.
Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 95–238 added subsecs. (c) and (d).


Transfer of Functions
“Secretary of Energy” substituted in text for “Administrator” (meaning Administrator of Energy Research and Development Administration, see section 501(2) of Pub. L. 95–238, title V, Feb. 25, 1978, 92 Stat. 86), pursuant to sections 301(a), 703, and 707 of Pub. L. 95–91, which are classified to sections 7151(a), 7293, and 7297 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, and which terminated Energy Research and Development Administration and transferred its functions and functions of Administrator thereof (with certain exceptions) to Secretary of Energy.


