“SEC. 6. POWERS OF CENTENNIAL COMMISSION.“(a) Hearings.—The Centennial Commission may hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the Centennial Commission considers appropriate to carry out its duties under this Act.

“(b) Powers of Member and Agents.—If authorized by the Centennial Commission, any member or agent of the Centennial Commission may take any action which the Centennial Commission is authorized to take under this Act.

“(c) Information From Federal Agencies.—The Centennial Commission shall secure directly from any Federal department or agency such information as the Centennial Commission considers necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act. Upon the request of the Chair of the Centennial Commission, the head of such department or agency shall furnish such information to the Centennial Commission.

“(d) Administrative Support Services.—Upon the request of the Centennial Commission, the Administrator of the General Services Administration shall provide to the Centennial Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the administrative support services necessary for the Centennial Commission to carry out its responsibilities under this Act.

“(e) Contract Authority.—“(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Centennial Commission is authorized—“(A) to procure supplies, services, and property; and

“(B) to make or enter into contracts, leases, or other legal agreements.


“(2) Limitation.—The Centennial Commission may not enter into any contract, lease, or other legal agreement that extends beyond the date of the termination of the Centennial Commission under section 8(a).


“(f) Postal Services.—The Centennial Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the Federal Government.

“(g) Gifts, Bequests, and Devises.—The Centennial Commission shall accept, use, and dispose of gifts, bequests, or devises of services or property, both real and personal, for the purpose of covering the costs incurred by the Centennial Commission to carry out its duties under this Act.

