“SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.“In this Act:“(1) Director.—The term ‘Director’ means the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

“(2) Federal agency.—The term ‘Federal agency’ means any agency as defined under section 551(1) of title 5, United States Code.

“(3) Federal financial assistance.—The term ‘Federal financial assistance’ has the same meaning as defined in section 7501(a)(5) of title 31, United States Code, under which Federal financial assistance is provided, directly or indirectly, to a non-Federal entity.

“(4) Local government.—The term ‘local government’ means a political subdivision of a State that is a unit of general local government (as defined under section 7501(a)(11) of title 31, United States Code).

“(5) Non-federal entity.—The term ‘non-Federal entity’ means a State, local government, or nonprofit organization.

“(6) Nonprofit organization.—The term ‘nonprofit organization’ means any corporation, trust, association, cooperative, or other organization that—“(A) is operated primarily for scientific, educational, service, charitable, or similar purposes in the public interest;

“(B) is not organized primarily for profit; and

“(C) uses net proceeds to maintain, improve, or expand the operations of the organization.


“(7) State.—The term ‘State’ means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any instrumentality thereof, any multi-State, regional, or interstate entity which has governmental functions, and any Indian Tribal Government.

“(8) Tribal government.—The term ‘tribal government’ means an Indian tribe, as that term is defined in section 7501(a)(9) of title 31, United States Code.

“(9) Uniform administrative rule.—The term ‘uniform administrative rule’ means a Governmentwide uniform rule for any generally applicable requirement established to achieve national policy objectives that applies to multiple Federal financial assistance programs across Federal agencies.

