“SEC. 10. PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION; NO REGULATORY AUTHORITY.“(a) Access to Private Property.—Nothing in this Act—“(1) requires any private property owner to allow public access (including Federal, State, or local government access) to the private property; or

“(2) modifies the application of any provision of Federal, State, or local law with regard to public access to or use of private property, except as entered into by voluntary agreement of the owner or custodian of the property.


“(b) Liability.—Establishment of the Region does not create any liability, or have any effect on any liability under any other law, of any private property owner with respect to any person injured on the private property.

“(c) Recognition of Authority to Control Land Use.—Nothing in this Act modifies the authority of Federal, State, or local governments to regulate land use.

“(d) Participation of Private Property Owners Not Required.—Nothing in this Act requires the owner of any private property located within the boundaries of the Region to participate in any land conservation, financial or technical assistance, or other programs established under this Act.

“(e) Purchase of Land or Interest in Land From Willing Sellers Only.—Funds appropriated to carry out this Act may be used to purchase land or interests in land only from willing sellers.

“(f) Manner of Acquisition.—All acquisitions of land under this Act shall be made in a voluntary manner and shall not be the result of forced takings.

“(g) Effect of Establishment.—“(1) In general.—The boundaries of the Region represent the area within which Federal funds appropriated for the purpose of this Act may be expended.

“(2) Regulatory authority.—The establishment of the Region and the boundaries of the Region do not provide any regulatory authority not in existence immediately before the enactment of this Act [Oct. 16, 2006] on land use in the Region by any management entity, except for such property rights as may be purchased from or donated by the owner of the property (including public lands donated by a State or local government).


