§ 2238. Authorization of appropriations(a) Trust fundThere are authorized to be appropriated out of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, established by section 9505 of title 26, for each fiscal year such sums as may be necessary to pay—(1) 100 percent of the eligible operations and maintenance costs of those portions of the Saint Lawrence Seaway operated and maintained by the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation for such fiscal year; and

(2) up to 100 percent of the eligible operations and maintenance costs assigned to commercial navigation of all harbors and inland harbors within the United States.


(b) General fundThere are authorized to be appropriated out of the general fund of the Treasury of the United States for each fiscal year such sums as may be necessary to pay the balance of all eligible operations and maintenance costs not provided by payments from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund under this section.


(c) Operation and maintenance of harbor projects(1) In generalTo the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall make expenditures to pay for operation and maintenance costs of the harbors and inland harbors referred to in subsection (a)(2), including expenditures of funds appropriated from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, based on an equitable allocation of funds among all such harbors and inland harbors.


(2) Criteria(A) In generalIn determining an equitable allocation of funds under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—(i) consider the information obtained in the assessment conducted under subsection (e);

(ii) consider the national and regional significance of harbor operations and maintenance; and

(iii) as appropriate, consider national security and military readiness needs.


(B) LimitationThe Secretary shall not allocate funds under paragraph (1) based solely on the tonnage transiting through a harbor.



(3) Emerging harbor projectsNotwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, in making expenditures under paragraph (1) for each of fiscal years 2015 through 2022, the Secretary shall allocate for operation and maintenance costs of emerging harbor projects an amount that is not less than 10 percent of the funds made available under this section for fiscal year 2012 to pay the costs described in subsection (a)(2).


(4) Management of Great Lakes Navigation SystemTo sustain effective and efficient operation and maintenance of the Great Lakes Navigation System, including any navigation feature in the Great Lakes that is a Federal responsibility with respect to operation and maintenance, the Secretary shall manage all of the individually authorized projects in the Great Lakes Navigation System as components of a single, comprehensive system, recognizing the interdependence of the projects.



(d) Prioritization(1) Priority(A) In generalFor each of fiscal years 2015 through 2024, if priority funds are available, the Secretary shall use the priority funds as follows:(i) 90 percent of the priority funds shall be used for high- and moderate-use harbor projects.

(ii) 10 percent of the priority funds shall be used for emerging harbor projects.


(B) Additional considerationsFor each of fiscal years 2015 through 2024, of the priority funds available, the Secretary shall use—(i) not less than 5 percent of such funds for underserved harbor projects; and

(ii) not less than 10 percent of such funds for projects that are located within the Great Lakes Navigation System.


(C) Underserved harborsIn determining which underserved harbor projects shall receive funds under this paragraph, the Secretary shall consider—(i) the total quantity of commerce supported by the water body on which the project is located; and

(ii) the minimum width and depth that—(I) would be necessary at the underserved harbor project to provide sufficient clearance for fully loaded commercial vessels using the underserved harbor project to maneuver safely; and

(II) does not exceed the constructed width and depth of the authorized navigation project.




(2) Expanded uses(A) Definition of eligible harbor or inland harbor definedIn this paragraph, the term “eligible harbor or inland harbor” means a harbor or inland harbor at which the total amount of harbor maintenance taxes collected in the immediately preceding 3 fiscal years exceeds the value of the work carried out for the harbor or inland harbor using amounts from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund during those 3 fiscal years.


(B) Use of expanded uses funds(i) Fiscal years 2015 through 2024For each of fiscal years 2015 through 2024, of the priority funds available, the Secretary shall use not less than 10 percent of such funds for expanded uses carried out at an eligible harbor or inland harbor.


(ii) Subsequent fiscal yearsFor fiscal year 2025 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary shall use not less than 10 percent of the priority funds available for expanded uses carried out at an eligible harbor or inland harbor.



(C) PrioritizationIn allocating funds under this paragraph, the Secretary shall give priority to projects at eligible harbors or inland harbors for which the difference, calculated in dollars, is greatest between—(i) the total amount of funding made available for projects at that eligible harbor or inland harbor from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund in the immediately preceding 3 fiscal years; and

(ii) the total amount of harbor maintenance taxes collected at that harbor or inland harbor in the immediately preceding 3 fiscal years.



(3) Remaining funds(A) In generalFor each of fiscal years 2015 through 2024, if after fully funding all projects eligible for funding under paragraphs (1)(B) and (2)(B)(i), priority funds made available under those paragraphs remain unobligated, the Secretary shall use those remaining funds to pay for operation and maintenance costs of any harbor or inland harbor referred to in subsection (a)(2) based on an equitable allocation of those funds among the harbors and inland harbors.


(B) CriteriaIn determining an equitable allocation of funds under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall—(i) use the criteria specified in subsection (c)(2)(A); and

(ii) make amounts available in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (1)(A).



(4) Emergency expendituresNothing in this subsection prohibits the Secretary from making an expenditure to pay for the operation and maintenance costs of a specific harbor or inland harbor, including the transfer of funding from the operation and maintenance of a separate project, if—(A) the Secretary determines that the action is necessary to address the navigation needs of a harbor or inland harbor where safe navigation has been severely restricted due to an unforeseen event; and

(B) the Secretary provides within 90 days of the action notice and information on the need for the action to the Committee on Environment and Public Works and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.



(e) Assessment of harbors and inland harbors(1) In generalNot later than 270 days after June 10, 2014, and biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall assess the operation and maintenance needs and uses of the harbors and inland harbors referred to in subsection (a)(2).


(2) Assessment of harbor needs and activities(A) Total operation and maintenance needs of harborsIn carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall identify—(i) the total future costs required to achieve and maintain the constructed width and depth for the harbors and inland harbors referred to in subsection (a)(2); and

(ii) the total expected costs for expanded uses at eligible harbors or inland harbors referred to in subsection (d)(2).


(B) Uses of harbors and inland harborsIn carrying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall identify current uses (and, to the extent practicable, assess the national, regional, and local benefits of such uses) of harbors and inland harbors referred to in subsection (a)(2), including the use of those harbors for—(i) commercial navigation, including the movement of goods;

(ii) domestic trade;

(iii) international trade;

(iv) commercial fishing;

(v) subsistence, including use by Indian tribes (as defined in section 450b of title 25) for subsistence and ceremonial purposes;

(vi) use as a harbor of refuge;

(vii) transportation of persons;

(viii) purposes relating to domestic energy production, including the fabrication, servicing, or supply of domestic offshore energy production facilities;

(ix) activities of the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating;

(x) activities of the Secretary of the Navy;

(xi) public health and safety related equipment for responding to coastal and inland emergencies;

(xii) recreation purposes; and

(xiii) other authorized purposes.



(3) Report to Congress(A) In generalFor fiscal year 2016, and biennially thereafter, in conjunction with the President’s annual budget submission to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment and Public Works and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report that, with respect to harbors and inland harbors referred to in subsection (a)(2)—(i) identifies the operation and maintenance costs associated with the harbors and inland harbors, including those costs required to achieve and maintain the constructed width and depth for the harbors and inland harbors and the costs for expanded uses at eligible harbors and inland harbors, on a project-by-project basis;

(ii) identifies the amount of funding requested in the President’s budget for the operation and maintenance costs associated with the harbors and inland harbors, on a project-by-project basis;

(iii) identifies the unmet operation and maintenance needs associated with the harbors and inland harbors, on a project-by-project basis; and

(iv) identifies the harbors and inland harbors for which the President will allocate funding over the subsequent 5 fiscal years for operation and maintenance activities, on a project-by-project basis, including the amounts to be allocated for such purposes.


(B) Public availabilityThe Secretary shall make the report submitted under subparagraph (A) available to the public, including on the Internet.




(f) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Constructed width and depthThe term “constructed width and depth” means the width and depth to which a project has been constructed, which may not exceed the authorized width and depth of the project.


(2) Emerging harbor projectThe term “emerging harbor project” means a project that is assigned to a harbor or inland harbor referred to in subsection (a)(2) that transits less than 1,000,000 tons of cargo annually.


(3) Expanded usesThe term “expanded uses” means the following activities:(A) The maintenance dredging of a berth in a harbor that is accessible to a Federal navigation project and that benefits commercial navigation at the harbor.

(B) The maintenance dredging and disposal of legacy-contaminated sediment, and sediment unsuitable for open water disposal, if—(i) such dredging and disposal benefits commercial navigation at the harbor; and

(ii) such sediment is located in and affects the maintenance of a Federal navigation project or is located in a berth that is accessible to a Federal navigation project.



(4) Great Lakes Navigation SystemThe term “Great Lakes Navigation System” includes—(A)(i) Lake Superior;

(ii) Lake Huron;

(iii) Lake Michigan;

(iv) Lake Erie; and

(v) Lake Ontario;


(B) all connecting waters between the lakes referred to in subparagraph (A) used for commercial navigation;

(C) any navigation features in the lakes referred to in subparagraph (A) or waters described in subparagraph (B) that are a Federal operation or maintenance responsibility; and

(D) areas of the Saint Lawrence River that are operated or maintained by the Federal Government for commercial navigation.


(5) Harbor maintenance taxThe term “harbor maintenance tax” means the amounts collected under section 4461 of title 26.


(6) High-use harbor projectThe term “high-use harbor project” means a project that is assigned to a harbor or inland harbor referred to in subsection (a)(2) that transits not less than 10,000,000 tons of cargo annually.


(7) Moderate-use harbor projectThe term “moderate-use harbor project” means a project that is assigned to a harbor or inland harbor referred to in subsection (a)(2) that transits annually—(A) more than 1,000,000 tons of cargo; but

(B) less than 10,000,000 tons of cargo.


(8) Priority fundsThe term “priority funds” means the difference between—(A) the total funds that are made available under this section to pay the costs described in subsection (a)(2) for a fiscal year; and

(B) the total funds made available under this section to pay the costs described in subsection (a)(2) in fiscal year 2012.


(9) Underserved harbor project(A) In generalThe term “underserved harbor project” means a project that is assigned to a harbor or inland harbor referred to in subsection (a)(2)—(i) that is a moderate-use harbor project or an emerging harbor project;

(ii) that has been maintained at less than the constructed width and depth of the project during each of the preceding 6 fiscal years; and

(iii) for which State and local investments in infrastructure have been made at those projects during the preceding 6 fiscal years.


(B) AdministrationFor purposes of this paragraph, State and local investments in infrastructure shall include infrastructure investments made using amounts made available for activities under section 5305(a)(9) of title 42.




(Pub. L. 99–662, title II, § 210, Nov. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 4106; Pub. L. 101–640, title III, § 316, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4641; Pub. L. 113–121, title II, § 2102(a), June 10, 2014, 128 Stat. 1273.)

Amendments2014—Subsec. (c) to (f). Pub. L. 113–121 added subsecs. (c) to (f).
1990—Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 101–640 substituted “up to 100 percent” for “not more than 40 percent”.


