“SEC. 1605. CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE RESEARCH GRANTS.“(a) In General.—Of the total amount made available for each fiscal year from the Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund established under section 1602, 2.5 percent shall be made available to the Gulf Coast States (as defined in section 311(a) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act [33 U.S.C. 1321(a)] (as added by section 1603 of the Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012)), in equal shares, exclusively for grants in accordance with subsection (c) to establish centers of excellence to conduct research only on the Gulf Coast Region (as defined in section 311 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33. [sic] U.S.C. 1321)).

“(b) Approval by State Entity, Task Force, or Agency.—The duties of a Gulf Coast State under this section shall be carried out by the applicable Gulf Coast State entities, task forces, or agencies listed in section 311(t)(1)(F) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (as added by section 1603 of the Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012), and for the State of Florida, a consortium of public and private research institutions within the State, which shall include the Florida Department of Environmental Protection and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, for that Gulf Coast State.

“(c) Grants.—“(1) In general.—A Gulf Coast State shall use the amounts made available to carry out this section to award competitive grants to nongovernmental entities and consortia in the Gulf Coast region (including public and private institutions of higher education) for the establishment of centers of excellence as described in subsection (d).

“(2) Application.—To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection, an entity or consortium described in paragraph (1) shall submit to a Gulf Coast State an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Gulf Coast State determines to be appropriate.

“(3) Priority.—In awarding grants under this subsection, a Gulf Coast State shall give priority to entities and consortia that demonstrate the ability to establish the broadest cross-section of participants with interest and expertise in any discipline described in subsection (d) on which the proposal of the center of excellence will be focused.

“(4) Reporting.—“(A) In general.—Each Gulf Coast State shall provide annually to the Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council established under section 311(t)(2)(C) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act [31 U.S.C. 1321(t)(2)(C)] (as added by section 1603 of the Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012) information regarding all grants, including the amount, discipline or disciplines, and recipients of the grants, and in the case of any grant awarded to a consortium, the membership of the consortium.

“(B) Inclusion.—The Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council shall include the information received under subparagraph (A) in the annual report to Congress of the Council required under section 311(t)(2)(C)(vii)(VII) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (as added by section 1603 of the Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012).



“(d) Disciplines.—Each center of excellence shall focus on science, technology, and monitoring in at least 1 of the following disciplines:“(1) Coastal and deltaic sustainability, restoration and protection, including solutions and technology that allow citizens to live in a safe and sustainable manner in a coastal delta in the Gulf Coast Region.

“(2) Coastal fisheries and wildlife ecosystem research and monitoring in the Gulf Coast Region.

“(3) Offshore energy development, including research and technology to improve the sustainable and safe development of energy resources in the Gulf of Mexico.

“(4) Sustainable and resilient growth, economic and commercial development in the Gulf Coast Region.

“(5) Comprehensive observation, monitoring, and mapping of the Gulf of Mexico.


