“SEC. 7. CENTENNIAL COMMISSION PERSONNEL MATTERS.“(a) Compensation of Members.—Members of the Centennial Commission shall serve without compensation for such service.

“(b) Travel Expenses.—Each member of the Centennial Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with the applicable provisions of title 5, United States Code.

“(c) Staff.—“(1) In general.—The Chair of the Centennial Commission shall, in consultation with the members of the Centennial Commission, appoint an executive director and such other additional personnel as may be necessary to enable the Centennial Commission to perform its duties.

“(2) Compensation.—“(A) In general.—Subject to subparagraph (B), the Chair of the Centennial Commission may fix the compensation of the executive director and any other personnel appointed under paragraph (1).

“(B) Limitation.—The Chair of the Centennial Commission may not fix the compensation of the executive director or other personnel appointed under paragraph (1) at a rate that exceeds the rate of payable [sic] for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.

“(C) Work location.—If the city government for Kansas City, Missouri, and the Liberty Memorial Association make space available in the building in which the America’s National World War I Museum is located, the executive director of the Centennial Commission and other personnel appointed under paragraph (1) shall work in such building to the extent practical.



“(d) Detail of Government Employees.—Upon request of the Centennial Commission, the head of any Federal department or agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any employee of that department or agency to the Centennial Commission to assist it in carrying out its duties under this Act.

“(e) Procurement of Temporary and Intermittent Services.—The Chair of the Centennial Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.

“(f) Source of Funds.—Gifts, bequests, and devises of services or property, both real and personal, received by the Centennial Commission under section 6(g) shall be the only source of funds to cover the costs incurred by the Centennial Commission under this section.

