“SEC. 5603. DETERMINATION AND PLAN REGARDING STATE MARINE SANITATION DEVICE PUMPOUT STATION NEEDS.“(a) Survey.—Within 3 months after the notification under section 5605(b), each coastal State shall conduct a survey to determine—“(1) the number and location of all operational pumpout stations and waste reception facilities at public and private marinas, mooring areas, docks, and other boating access facilities within the coastal zone of the State; and

“(2) the number of recreational vessels in the coastal waters of the State with type III marine sanitation devices or portable toilets, and the areas of those coastal waters where those vessels congregate.


“(b) Plan.—Within 6 months after the notification under section 5605(b), and based on the survey conducted under subsection (a), each coastal State shall—“(1) develop and submit to the Secretary of the Interior a plan for any construction or renovation of pumpout stations and waste reception facilities that are necessary to ensure that, based on the guidance issued under section 5605(a), there are pumpout stations and waste reception facilities in the State that are adequate and reasonably available to meet the needs of recreational vessels using the coastal waters of the State; and

“(2) submit to the Secretary of the Interior with that plan a list of all stations and facilities in the coastal zone of the State which are operational on the date of submittal.


“(c) Plan Approval.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 60 days after a plan is submitted by a State under subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior shall approve or disapprove the plan, based on—“(A) the adequacy of the survey conducted by the State under subsection (a); and

“(B) the ability of the plan, based on the guidance issued under section 5605(a), to meet the construction and renovation needs of the recreational vessels identified in the survey.


“(2) Notification of state; modification.—The Secretary of the Interior shall promptly notify the affected Governor of the approval or disapproval of a plan. If a plan is disapproved, the Secretary of the Interior shall recommend necessary modifications and return the plan to the affected Governor.

“(3) Resubmittal.—Not later than 60 days after receiving a plan returned by the Secretary of the Interior, the Governor shall make the appropriate changes and resubmit the plan.


“(d) Indication of Stations and Facilities on NOAA Charts.—“(1) In general.—The Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere shall indicate, on charts published by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for the use of operators of recreational vessels, the locations of pumpout stations and waste reception facilities.

“(2) Notification of NOAA.—“(A) Lists of stations and facilities.—The Secretary of the Interior shall transmit to the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere each list of operational stations and facilities submitted by a State under subsection (b)(2), by not later than 30 days after the date of receipt of that list.

“(B) Completion of project.—The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service shall notify the Under Secretary of the location of each station or facility at which a construction or renovation project is completed by a State with amounts made available under the Act of August 9, 1950 (16 U.S.C. 777a et seq. [16 U.S.C. 777 et seq.]), as amended by this subtitle, by not later than 30 days after the date of notification by a State of the completion of the project.



