§ 196. Cooperative agreements; delegation of authority
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for fiscal year 1992 and each year thereafter, the Secretary of the Interior or his designee is authorized to—(a) enter into a cooperative agreement or agreements with any State or Indian tribe to share royalty management information, to carry out inspection, auditing, investigation or enforcement (not including the collection of royalties, civil penalties, or other payments) activities in cooperation with the Secretary, except that the Secretary shall not enter into such cooperative agreement with a State with respect to any such activities on Indian lands except with the permission of the Indian tribe involved; and

(b) upon written request of any State, to delegate to the State all or part of the authorities and responsibilities of the Secretary under the authorizing leasing statutes, leases, and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto to conduct audits, investigations, and inspections, except that the Secretary shall not undertake such a delegation with respect to any Indian lands except with permission of the Indian tribe involved,


with respect to any lease authorizing exploration for or development of coal, any other solid mineral, or geothermal steam on any Federal lands or Indian lands within the State or with respect to any lease or portion of a lease subject to section 1337(g) of title 43, on the same terms and conditions as those authorized for oil and gas leases under sections 1732, 1733, 1735, and 1736 of this title and the regulations duly promulgated with respect thereto: Provided further, That section 1734 of this title shall apply to leases authorizing exploration for or development of coal, any other solid mineral, or geothermal steam on any Federal lands, or to any lease or portion of a lease subject to section 1337(g) of title 43: Provided further, That the Secretary shall compensate any State or Indian tribe for those costs which are necessary to carry out activities conducted pursuant to such cooperative agreement or delegation.
(Pub. L. 102–154, title I, Nov. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 1001.)

Codification
Section was not enacted as part of act Feb. 25, 1920, ch. 85, 41 Stat. 437, known as the Mineral Leasing Act, which comprises this chapter.


