§ 5791c. Grant program for support of AMBER Alert communications plans(a) Program requiredThe Attorney General shall carry out a program to provide grants to States for the development or enhancement of programs and activities for the support of AMBER Alert communications plans.


(b) ActivitiesActivities funded by grants under the program under subsection (a) of this section may include—(1) the development and implementation of education and training programs, and associated materials, relating to AMBER Alert communications plans;

(2) the development and implementation of law enforcement programs, and associated equipment, relating to AMBER Alert communications plans;

(3) the development and implementation of new technologies to improve AMBER Alert communications; and

(4) such other activities as the Attorney General considers appropriate for supporting the AMBER Alert communications program.


(c) Federal shareThe Federal share of the cost of any activities funded by a grant under the program under subsection (a) of this section may not exceed 50 percent.


(d) Distribution of grant amounts on geographic basisThe Attorney General shall, to the maximum extent practicable, ensure the distribution of grants under the program under subsection (a) of this section on an equitable basis throughout the various regions of the United States.


(e) AdministrationThe Attorney General shall prescribe requirements, including application requirements, for grants under the program under subsection (a) of this section.


(f) Authorization of appropriations(1) There is authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Justice $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2004 to carry out this section and, in addition, $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2004 to carry out subsection (b)(3) of this section.

(2) Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in paragraph (1) shall remain available until expended.


(Pub. L. 108–21, title III, § 304, Apr. 30, 2003, 117 Stat. 663.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003, also known as the PROTECT Act, and not as part of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 which comprises this chapter.


