“SEC. 3. ASSISTANCE FOR SPECIAL OLYMPICS.“(a) Education Activities.—The Secretary of Education may award grants to, or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with, Special Olympics to carry out the following:“(1) Activities to promote the expansion of Special Olympics, including activities to increase the participation of individuals with intellectual disabilities within the United States.

“(2) The design and implementation of Special Olympics education programs, including character education and volunteer programs that support the purposes of this Act, that can be integrated into classroom instruction and are consistent with academic content standards.


“(b) International Activities.—The Secretary of State may award grants to, or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with, Special Olympics to carry out the following:“(1) Activities to increase the participation of individuals with intellectual disabilities in Special Olympics outside of the United States.

“(2) Activities to improve the awareness outside of the United States of the abilities and unique contributions that individuals with intellectual disabilities can make to society.


“(c) Healthy Athletes.—“(1) In general.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services may award grants to, or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with, Special Olympics for the implementation of on-site health assessments, screening for health problems, health education, data collection, and referrals to direct health care services.

“(2) Coordination.—Activities under paragraph (1) shall be coordinated with private health providers, existing authorized programs of State and local jurisdictions, or the Department of Health and Human Services, as applicable.


“(d) Limitation.—Amounts appropriated to carry out this section shall not be used for direct treatment of diseases, medical conditions, or mental health conditions. Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to limit the use of non-Federal funds by Special Olympics.

