§ 1469d. General technical assistance(a) Assistance with matters generally within responsibility of governments; methods of assistanceThe Secretary of the Interior is authorized to extend to the governments of American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and their agencies and instrumentalities, with or without reimbursement, technical assistance on subjects within the responsibility of the respective territorial governments. Such assistance may be provided by the Secretary of the Interior through members of his staff, reimbursements to other departments or agencies of the Federal Government under sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31, grants to or cooperative agreements with such governments, agreements with Federal agencies or agencies of State or local governments, or the employment of private individuals, partnerships, or corporations. Technical assistance may include research, planning assistance, studies, and demonstration projects.


(b) Agricultural plantings and physical facilities, assistance for peoples of Enewetak Atoll and Bikini AtollThe Secretary of the Interior is further authorized to provide technical assistance to, and maintenance of agricultural plantings and physical facilities for, the peoples from Enewetak Atoll and Bikini Atoll, as well as for the purchase of food and equipment and for the transportation of such food, equipment and persons as he deems necessary and appropriate until such areas produce sufficient food to fully sustain the residents after resettlement. This provision shall not cease to be applicable either before or after the termination of the trusteeship without the express approval of the United States Congress.


(c) Extension of programs administered by Department of Agriculture to Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, etc.The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to extend, in his discretion, programs administered by the Department of Agriculture to Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa (hereinafter called the territories). Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to waive or modify any statutory requirements relating to the provision of assistance under such programs when he deems it necessary in order to adapt the programs to the needs of the respective territory: Provided, That not less than sixty days prior to extending any program pursuant to this section or waiving or modifying any statutory requirement pursuant to this section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall notify the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate of his proposed action together with an explanation of why his action is necessary and the anticipated benefits to each territory affected. Such programs shall be carried out in cooperation with the respective governments of the territories and shall be covered by a memorandum of understanding between the respective territorial government and the Department of Agriculture. Any sums appropriated pursuant to this paragraph shall be allocated to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture concerned with the administration of programs in the territories.


(d) Authorization of appropriationsEffective October 1, 1981, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.


(Pub. L. 96–597, title VI, § 601, Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3479; Pub. L. 103–437, § 17(a)(2), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4595.)

Codification
In subsec. (a), “sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31” substituted in text for “the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 686)” on authority of Pub. L. 97–258, § 4(b), Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1067, the first section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance.

Amendments1994—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 103–437 substituted “Natural Resources” for “Interior and Insular Affairs” before “of the House”.


Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.


