“SEC. 804. QUIET AIRCRAFT TECHNOLOGY FOR GRAND CANYON.“(a) Quiet Technology Requirements.—Within 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Apr. 5, 2000], the Administrator shall designate reasonably achievable requirements for fixed-wing and helicopter aircraft necessary for such aircraft to be considered as employing quiet aircraft technology for purposes of this section. If the Administrator determines that the Administrator will not be able to make such designation before the last day of such 12-month period, the Administrator shall transmit to Congress a report on the reasons for not meeting such time period and the expected date of such designation.

“(b) Routes or Corridors.—In consultation with the Director and the advisory group established under section 805, the Administrator shall establish, by rule, routes or corridors for commercial air tour operations (as defined in section 40128(f) of title 49, United States Code) by fixed-wing and helicopter aircraft that employ quiet aircraft technology for—“(1) tours of the Grand Canyon originating in Clark County, Nevada; and

“(2) ‘local loop’ tours originating at the Grand Canyon National Park Airport, in Tusayan, Arizona,


provided that such routes or corridors can be located in areas that will not negatively impact the substantial restoration of natural quiet, tribal lands, or safety.

“(c) Operational Caps.—Commercial air tour operations by any fixed-wing or helicopter aircraft that employs quiet aircraft technology and that replaces an existing aircraft shall not be subject to the operational flight allocations that apply to other commercial air tour operations of the Grand Canyon, provided that the cumulative impact of such operations does not increase noise at the Grand Canyon.

“(d) Modification of Existing Aircraft To Meet Standards.—A commercial air tour operation by a fixed-wing or helicopter aircraft in a commercial air tour operator’s fleet on the date of the enactment of this Act [Apr. 5, 2000] that meets the requirements designated under subsection (a), or is subsequently modified to meet the requirements designated under subsection (a), may be used for commercial air tour operations under the same terms and conditions as a replacement aircraft under subsection (c) without regard to whether it replaces an existing aircraft.

“(e) Mandate To Restore Natural Quiet.—Nothing in this Act [should be “this title”] shall be construed to relieve or diminish—“(1) the statutory mandate imposed upon the Secretary of the Interior and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration under Public Law 100–91 (16 U.S.C. 1a–1 note) to achieve the substantial restoration of the natural quiet and experience at the Grand Canyon National Park; and

“(2) the obligations of the Secretary and the Administrator to promulgate forthwith regulations to achieve the substantial restoration of the natural quiet and experience at the Grand Canyon National Park.


