§ 14043e–3. Collaborative grants to increase the long-term stability of victims(a) Grants authorized(1) In generalThe Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Administration for Children and Families, in partnership with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, shall award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements for a period of not less than 2 years to eligible entities to develop long-term sustainability and self-sufficiency options for adult and youth victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking who are currently homeless or at risk for becoming homeless.


(2) AmountThe Secretary of Health and Human Services shall award funds in amounts—(A) not less than $25,000 per year; and

(B) not more than $1,000,000 per year.



(b) Eligible entitiesTo be eligible to receive funds under this section, an entity shall demonstrate that it is a coalition or partnership, applying jointly, that—(1) shall include a domestic violence victim service provider;

(2) shall include—(A) a homeless service provider;

(B) a nonprofit, nongovernmental community housing development organization or a Department of Agriculture rural housing service program; or

(C) in the absence of a homeless service provider on tribal lands or nonprofit, nongovernmental community housing development organization on tribal lands, a tribally designated housing entity or tribal housing consortium;


(3) may include a dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking victim service provider;

(4) may include housing developers, housing corporations, State housing finance agencies, other housing agencies, and associations representing landlords;

(5) may include a public housing agency or tribally designated housing entity;

(6) may include tenant organizations in public or tribally designated housing, as well as nonprofit, nongovernmental tenant organizations;

(7) may include other nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations participating in the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Continuum of Care process;

(8) may include a State, tribal, territorial, or local government or government agency; and

(9) may include any other agencies or nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations with the capacity to provide effective help to adult and youth victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.


(c) ApplicationEach eligible entity seeking funds under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary of Health and Human Services may require.


(d) Use of fundsFunds awarded to eligible entities under subsection (a) of this section shall be used to design or replicate and implement new activities, services, and programs to increase the stability and self-sufficiency of, and create partnerships to develop long-term housing options for adult and youth victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, and their dependents, who are currently homeless or at risk of becoming homeless. Such activities, services, or programs—(1) shall develop sustainable long-term living solutions in the community by—(A) coordinating efforts and resources among the various groups and organizations comprised in the entity to access existing private and public funding;

(B) assisting with the placement of individuals and families in long-term housing; and

(C) providing services to help individuals or families find and maintain long-term housing, including financial assistance and support services;


(2) may develop partnerships with individuals, organizations, corporations, or other entities that provide capital costs for the purchase, preconstruction, construction, renovation, repair, or conversion of affordable housing units;

(3) may use funds for the administrative expenses related to the continuing operation, upkeep, maintenance, and use of housing described in paragraph (2); and

(4) may provide to the community information about housing and housing programs, and the process to locate and obtain long-term housing.


(e) LimitationFunds provided under paragraph 11 So in original. Probably should be “subsection”. (a) shall not be used for construction, modernization or renovation.


(f) Underserved populations and prioritiesIn awarding grants under this section, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall—(1) give priority to linguistically and culturally specific services;

(2) give priority to applications from entities that include a sexual assault service provider as described in subsection (b)(3) of this section; and

(3) award a minimum of 15 percent of the funds appropriated under this section in any fiscal year to tribal organizations.


(g) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section:(1) Affordable housingThe term “affordable housing” means housing that complies with the conditions set forth in section 12745 of this title.


(2) Long-term housingThe term “long-term housing” means housing that is sustainable, accessible, affordable, and safe for the foreseeable future and is—(A) rented or owned by the individual;

(B) subsidized by a voucher or other program which is not time-limited and is available for as long as the individual meets the eligibility requirements for the voucher or program; or

(C) provided directly by a program, agency, or organization and is not time-limited and is available for as long as the individual meets the eligibility requirements for the program, agency, or organization.



(h) Evaluation, monitoring, administration, and technical assistanceFor purposes of this section—(1) up to 5 percent of the funds appropriated under subsection (i) of this section for each fiscal year may be used by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for evaluation, monitoring, and administration costs under this section; and

(2) up to 8 percent of the funds appropriated under subsection (i) of this section for each fiscal year may be used to provide technical assistance to grantees under this section.


(i) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated $4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018 to carry out the provisions of this section.


(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41404, as added Pub. L. 109–162, title VI, § 601, Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 3033; amended Pub. L. 109–271, § 5(a), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 759; Pub. L. 113–4, title VI, § 603(1), Mar. 7, 2013, 127 Stat. 110.)

Amendments2013—Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 113–4 substituted “$4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018” for “$10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2011”.
2006—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 109–271, § 5(a)(1), substituted “for Children” for “of Children”.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 109–271, § 5(a)(2), struck out “(1) In general.—” before “Funds awarded to”, inserted “Such activities, services, or programs—” after “becoming homeless.”, substituted “(1)” for “(2) Activities, services, programs.—Such activities, services, or programs described in paragraph (1)”, redesignated pars. (3) to (5) as (2) to (4), respectively, and substituted “paragraph (2)” for “paragraph (3)” in par. (3), as so redesignated.


