§ 2312. Contingency Contracting Corps(a) Definition.—In this section, the term “Corps” means the Contingency Contracting Corps established in subsection (b).

(b) Establishment.—The Administrator of General Services, pursuant to policies established by the Office of Management and Budget, and in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall establish a Government-wide Contingency Contracting Corps.

(c) Function.—The members of the Corps shall be available for deployment in responding to an emergency or major disaster, or a contingency operation, both within or outside the continental United States.

(d) Applicability.—The authorities provided in this section apply with respect to any procurement of property or services by or for an executive agency that, as determined by the head of the executive agency, are to be used—(1) in support of a contingency operation as defined in section 101(a)(13) of title 10; or

(2) to respond to an emergency or major disaster as defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122).


(e) Membership.—Membership in the Corps shall be voluntary and open to all Federal employees and members of the Armed Forces who are members of the Federal acquisition workforce.

(f) Education and Training.—The Administrator of General Services may, in consultation with the Director of the Federal Acquisition Institute and the Chief Acquisition Officers Council, establish educational and training requirements for members of the Corps. Education and training carried out pursuant to the requirements shall be paid for from funds available in the acquisition workforce training fund established pursuant to section 1703(i) of this title.

(g) Salary.—The salary for a member of the Corps shall be paid—(1) in the case of a member of the Armed Forces, out of funds available to the Armed Force concerned; and

(2) in the case of a Federal employee, out of funds available to the employing agency.


(h) Authority to Deploy the Corps.—(1) Director of the Office of Management and Budget.—The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall have the authority, upon request by an executive agency, to determine when members of the Corps shall be deployed, with the concurrence of the head of the agency or agencies employing the members to be deployed.

(2) Secretary of Defense.—Nothing in this section shall preclude the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary’s designee from deploying members of the Armed Forces or civilian personnel of the Department of Defense in support of a contingency operation as defined in section 101(a)(13) of title 10.


(i) Annual Report.—(1) In general.—The Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives an annual report on the status of the Corps as of September 30 of each fiscal year.

(2) Content.—Each report under paragraph (1) shall include the number of members of the Corps, the total cost of operating the program, the number of deployments of members of the program, and the performance of members of the program in deployment.


(Pub. L. 111–350, § 3, Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3739.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


2312 (except subsection (a))41:440.Pub. L. 93–400, § 44, as added Pub. L. 110–417, [div. A], title VIII, § 870(a), Oct. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 4554.
2312(a)no source.




