§ 290bb–40. Grants for the integrated treatment of serious mental illness and co-occurring substance abuse(a) In generalThe Secretary shall award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements to States, political subdivisions of States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and private nonprofit organizations for the development or expansion of programs to provide integrated treatment services for individuals with a serious mental illness and a co-occurring substance abuse disorder.


(b) PriorityIn awarding grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall give priority to applicants that emphasize the provision of services for individuals with a serious mental illness and a co-occurring substance abuse disorder who—(1) have a history of interactions with law enforcement or the criminal justice system;

(2) have recently been released from incarceration;

(3) have a history of unsuccessful treatment in either an inpatient or outpatient setting;

(4) have never followed through with outpatient services despite repeated referrals; or

(5) are homeless.


(c) Use of fundsA State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, tribal organization, or private nonprofit organization that receives a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under subsection (a) of this section shall use funds received under such grant—(1) to provide fully integrated services rather than serial or parallel services;

(2) to employ staff that are cross-trained in the diagnosis and treatment of both serious mental illness and substance abuse;

(3) to provide integrated mental health and substance abuse services at the same location;

(4) to provide services that are linguistically appropriate and culturally competent;

(5) to provide at least 10 programs for integrated treatment of both mental illness and substance abuse at sites that previously provided only mental health services or only substance abuse services; and

(6) to provide services in coordination with other existing public and private community programs.


(d) ConditionThe Secretary shall ensure that a State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, tribal organization, or private nonprofit organization that receives a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under subsection (a) of this section maintains the level of effort necessary to sustain existing mental health and substance abuse programs for other populations served by mental health systems in the community.


(e) Distribution of awardsThe Secretary shall ensure that grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements awarded under subsection (a) of this section are equitably distributed among the geographical regions of the United States and between urban and rural populations.


(f) DurationThe Secretary shall award grants, contract, or cooperative agreements under this subsection for a period of not more than 5 years.


(g) ApplicationA State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, tribal organization, or private nonprofit organization that desires a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under this subsection shall prepare and submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require. Such application shall include a plan for the rigorous evaluation of activities funded with an award under such subsection, including a process and outcomes evaluation.


(h) EvaluationA State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, tribal organization, or private nonprofit organization that receives a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under this subsection shall prepare and submit a plan for the rigorous evaluation of the program funded under such grant, contract, or agreement, including both process and outcomes evaluation, and the submission of an evaluation at the end of the project period.


(i) Authorization of appropriationThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $40,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2002 through 2003.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 520I, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXII, § 3212, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1205.)
