§ 285b–7a. Heart attack, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases in women(a) In generalThe Director of the Institute shall expand, intensify, and coordinate research and related activities of the Institute with respect to heart attack, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases in women.


(b) Coordination with other institutesThe Director of the Institute shall coordinate activities under subsection (a) of this section with similar activities conducted by the other national research institutes and agencies of the National Institutes of Health to the extent that such Institutes and agencies have responsibilities that are related to heart attack, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases in women.


(c) Certain programsIn carrying out subsection (a) of this section, the Director of the Institute shall conduct or support research to expand the understanding of the causes of, and to develop methods for preventing, cardiovascular diseases in women. Activities under such subsection shall include conducting and supporting the following:(1) Research to determine the reasons underlying the prevalence of heart attack, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases in women, including African-American women and other women who are members of racial or ethnic minority groups.

(2) Basic research concerning the etiology and causes of cardiovascular diseases in women.

(3) Epidemiological studies to address the frequency and natural history of such diseases and the differences among men and women, and among racial and ethnic groups, with respect to such diseases.

(4) The development of safe, efficient, and cost-effective diagnostic approaches to evaluating women with suspected ischemic heart disease.

(5) Clinical research for the development and evaluation of new treatments for women, including rehabilitation.

(6) Studies to gain a better understanding of methods of preventing cardiovascular diseases in women, including applications of effective methods for the control of blood pressure, lipids, and obesity.

(7) Information and education programs for patients and health care providers on risk factors associated with heart attack, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases in women, and on the importance of the prevention or control of such risk factors and timely referral with appropriate diagnosis and treatment. Such programs shall include information and education on health-related behaviors that can improve such important risk factors as smoking, obesity, high blood cholesterol, and lack of exercise.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 424A, as added Pub. L. 105–340, title I, § 104, Oct. 31, 1998, 112 Stat. 3192; amended Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 103(b)(18), Jan. 15, 2007, 120 Stat. 3688.)

Amendments2007—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 109–482 struck out heading and text of subsec. (d). Text read as follows: “For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1999 through 2003. The authorization of appropriations established in the preceding sentence is in addition to any other authorization of appropriation that is available for such purpose.”

Effective Date of 2007 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 109–482 applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482, set out as a note under section 281 of this title.


