§ 3201. Definitions
In this chapter—(1) “International Safety Management Code” has the same meaning given that term in chapter IX of the Annex to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974;

(2) “responsible person” means—(A) the owner of a vessel to which this chapter applies; or

(B) any other person that has—(i) assumed the responsibility for operation of a vessel to which this chapter applies from the owner; and

(ii) agreed to assume with respect to the vessel responsibility for complying with all the requirements of this chapter and the regulations prescribed under this chapter.



(3) “vessel engaged on a foreign voyage” means a vessel to which this chapter applies—(A) arriving at a place under the jurisdiction of the United States from a place in a foreign country;

(B) making a voyage between places outside the United States; or

(C) departing from a place under the jurisdiction of the United States for a place in a foreign country.


(Added Pub. L. 104–324, title VI, § 602(a), Oct. 19, 1996, 110 Stat. 3928.)

Safety Management Code Report and PolicyPub. L. 105–383, title III, § 306, Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3420, provided that:
“(a) Report on Implementation and Enforcement of the International Safety Management Code.—“(1) The Secretary of Transportation (in this section referred to as the ‘Secretary’) shall conduct a study—“(A) reporting on the status of implementation of the International Safety Management Code (hereafter referred to in this section as ‘Code’);

“(B) detailing enforcement actions involving the Code, including the role documents and reports produced pursuant to the Code play in such enforcement actions;

“(C) evaluating the effects the Code has had on marine safety and environmental protection, and identifying actions to further promote marine safety and environmental protection through the Code;

“(D) identifying actions to achieve full compliance with and effective implementation of the Code; and

“(E) evaluating the effectiveness of internal reporting and auditing under the Code, and recommending actions to ensure the accuracy and candidness of such reporting and auditing.


These recommended actions may include proposed limits on the use in legal proceedings of documents produced pursuant to the Code.

“(2) The Secretary shall provide opportunity for the public to participate in and comment on the study conducted under paragraph (1).

“(3) Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 13, 1998], the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report on the results of the study conducted under paragraph (1).


“(b) Policy.—“(1) Not later than 9 months after submission of the report in subsection (a)(3), the Secretary shall develop a policy to achieve full compliance with and effective implementation of the Code. The policy may include—“(A) enforcement penalty reductions and waivers, limits on the use in legal proceedings of documents produced pursuant to the Code, or other incentives to ensure accurate and candid reporting and auditing;

“(B) any other measures to achieve full compliance with and effective implementation of the Code; and

“(C) if appropriate, recommendations to Congress for any legislation necessary to implement one or more elements of the policy.


“(2) The Secretary shall provide opportunity for the public to participate in the development of the policy in paragraph (1).

“(3) Upon completion of the policy in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall publish the policy in the Federal Register and provide opportunity for public comment on the policy.”





Vessel Management Methods StudyPub. L. 104–324, title VI, § 602(c), Oct. 19, 1996, 110 Stat. 3930, provided that:
“(1) In general.—The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall conduct, in cooperation with the owners, charterers, and managing operators of vessels documented under chapter 121 of title 46, United States Code, and other interested persons, a study of the methods that may be used to implement and enforce the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention under chapter IX of the Annex to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974.

“(2) Report.—The Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report of the results of the study required under paragraph (1) before the earlier of—“(A) the date that final regulations are prescribed under section 3203 of title 46, United States Code (as enacted by subsection (a)[)]; or

“(B) the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 19, 1996].”





International Convention for Safety of Life at SeaFor International Conventions for the Safety of Life at Sea to which the United States has been a party, see section 1602 of Title 33, Navigation and Navigable Waters, and notes thereunder.


