§ 12651. Corporation for National and Community Service
There is established a Corporation for National and Community Service that shall administer the programs established under the national service laws. The Corporation shall be a Government corporation, as defined in section 103 of title 5.
(Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 191, as added and amended Pub. L. 103–82, title II, §§ 202(a), 203(a)(1)(B), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 873, 891.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 12651, Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 190, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3168; Pub. L. 102–10, § 9, Mar. 12, 1991, 105 Stat. 31; Pub. L. 102–384, §§ 4, 10, Oct. 5, 1992, 106 Stat. 1455, 1456, provided for establishment of Commission on National and Community Service, prior to the general amendment of subtitle G of title I of Pub. L. 101–610 [former part G of this subchapter] by Pub. L. 103–82, § 202(a).

Amendments1993—Pub. L. 103–82, § 203(a)(1)(B), which directed amendment of section 191 of subtitle I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 by substituting “the national service laws” for “this chapter”, was executed to this section, which is section 191 of subtitle G of title I of the National Community Service Act of 1990, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Effective Date of 1993 AmendmentPub. L. 103–82, title II, § 203(d), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 895, provided that:
“(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), this section [amending this section and sections 12639, 12651b to 12651d, 12651f, and 12651g of this title, repealing sections 5041 and 5042 of this title, and enacting provisions set out below], and the amendments made by this section, shall take effect—“(A) 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 21, 1993]; or

“(B) on such earlier date as the President shall determine to be appropriate and announce by proclamation published in the Federal Register.


“(2) Transition.—Subsection (c)(10) [set out below] shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 21, 1993].”



[Section 203, and the amendments made by section 203, of Pub. L. 103–82 became effective Apr. 4, 1994, pursuant to Proc. No. 6662, Apr. 4, 1994, 59 F.R. 16507, set out below.]

Effective DatePub. L. 103–82, title II, § 202(i), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 891, provided that:
“(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), or paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (g) [amending sections 8F and 9 of the Inspector General Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95–452, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, and enacting provisions set out as notes under sections 8F and 9 of such act], the amendments made by this section [enacting this division and section 8E of the Inspector General Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95–452, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, amending section 5041 of this title, sections 4, 8F, 8G, 9, and 11 of the Inspector General Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95–452, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, sections 9101 and 9105 of Title 31, Money and Finance, section 410 of Title 39, Postal Service, and section 484 of former Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works] shall take effect on October 1, 1993.

“(2) Establishment and appointment authorities.—Sections 191, 192, and 193 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 [42 U.S.C. 12651, 12651a, 12651c], as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 21, 1993].”





Transfer of Functions of Commission on National and Community Service
Pub. L. 103–82, title II, § 202(c), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 888, provided that:
“(1) Definitions.—For purposes of this subsection, unless otherwise provided or indicated by the context, each term specified in section 203(c)(1) [set out below] shall have the meaning given the term in such section.

“(2) Transfer of functions.—There are transferred to the Corporation the functions that the Board of Directors or Executive Director of the Commission on National and Community Service exercised before the effective date of this subsection (including all related functions of any officer or employee of the Commission).

“(3) Application.—The provisions of paragraphs (3) through (10) of section 203(c) [set out below] shall apply with respect to the transfer described in paragraph (2), except that—“(A) for purposes of such application, references to the term ‘ACTION Agency’ shall be deemed to be references to the Commission on National and Community Service; and

“(B) paragraph (10) of such section shall not preclude the transfer of the members of the Board of Directors of the Commission to the Corporation if, on the effective date of this subsection, the Board of Directors of the Corporation has not been confirmed.”






Transfer of Functions From ACTION Agency
Pub. L. 103–82, title II, § 203(c), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 892, provided that:
“(1) Definitions.—For purposes of this subsection, unless otherwise provided or indicated by the context—“(A) the term ‘Chief Executive Officer’ means the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation;

“(B) the term ‘Corporation’ means the Corporation for National and Community Service, established under section 191 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 [42 U.S.C. 12651];

“(C) the term ‘Federal agency’ has the meaning given to the term ‘agency’ by section 551(1) of title 5, United States Code;

“(D) the term ‘function’ means any duty, obligation, power, authority, responsibility, right, privilege, activity, or program; and

“(E) the term ‘office’ includes any office, administration, agency, institute, unit, organizational entity, or component thereof.


“(2) Transfer of functions.—There are transferred to the Corporation the functions that the Director of the ACTION Agency exercised before the effective date of this subsection [see Effective Date of 1993 Amendment note above] (including all related functions of any officer or employee of the ACTION Agency).

“(3) Determinations of certain functions by the office of management and budget.—If necessary, the Office of Management and Budget shall make any determination of the functions that are transferred under paragraph (2).

“(4) Reorganization.—The Chief Executive Officer is authorized to allocate or reallocate any function transferred under paragraph (2) among the officers of the Corporation.

“(5) Transfer and allocations of appropriations and personnel.—Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the personnel employed in connection with, and the assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection with the functions transferred by this subsection, subject to section 1531 of title 31, United States Code, shall be transferred to the Corporation. Unexpended funds transferred pursuant to this paragraph shall be used only for the purposes for which the funds were originally authorized and appropriated.

“(6) Incidental transfer.—The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, at such time or times as the Director shall provide, is authorized to make such determinations as may be necessary with regard to the functions transferred by this subsection, and to make such additional incidental dispositions of personnel, assets, liabilities, grants, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds held, used, arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection with such functions, as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this subsection. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide for the termination of the affairs of all entities terminated by this subsection and for such further measures and dispositions as may be necessary to effectuate the purposes of this subsection.

“(7) Effect on personnel.—“(A) In general.—Except as otherwise provided by this subsection, the transfer pursuant to this subsection of full-time personnel (except special Government employees) and part-time personnel holding permanent positions shall be to positions in the Corporation subject to section 195(a) of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 [42 U.S.C. 12651f(a)], as added by section 202(a) of this Act, and shall not cause any such employee to be separated or reduced in grade or compensation, or to have the benefits of the employee reduced, for 1 year after the date of transfer of such employee under this subsection, and such transfer shall be deemed to be a transfer of functions for purposes of section 3503 of title 5, United States Code.

“(B) Executive schedule positions.—Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, any person who, on the day preceding the effective date of this subsection [see Effective Date of 1993 Amendment note above], held a position compensated in accordance with the Executive Schedule prescribed in chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, and who, without a break in service, is appointed in the Corporation to a position having duties comparable to the duties performed immediately preceding such appointment shall continue to be compensated in such new position at not less than the rate provided for such previous position, for the duration of the service of such person in such new position.

“(C) Termination of certain positions.—Positions whose incumbents are appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, the functions of which are transferred by this subsection, shall terminate on the effective date of this subsection.


“(8) Savings provisions.—“(A) Continuing effect of legal documents.—All orders, determinations, rules, regulations, permits, agreements, grants, contracts, certificates, licenses, registrations, privileges, and other administrative actions—“(i) that have been issued, made, granted, or allowed to become effective by the President, any Federal agency or official thereof, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, in the performance of functions that are transferred under this subsection; and

“(ii) that are in effect at the time this subsection takes effect [see Effective Date of 1993 Amendment note above], or were final before the effective date of this subsection and are to become effective on or after the effective date of this subsection,


shall continue in effect according to their terms until modified, terminated, superseded, set aside, or revoked in accordance with law by the President, the Chief Executive Officer, or other authorized official, a court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law.

“(B) Proceedings not affected.—The provisions of this subsection shall not affect any proceedings, including notices of proposed rulemaking, or any application for any license, permit, certificate, or financial assistance pending before the ACTION Agency at the time this subsection takes effect, with respect to functions transferred by this subsection. Such proceedings and applications shall be continued. Orders shall be issued in such proceedings, appeals shall be taken therefrom, and payments shall be made pursuant to such orders, as if this subsection had not been enacted, and orders issued in any such proceedings shall continue in effect until modified, terminated, superseded, or revoked by a duly authorized official, by a court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law. Nothing in this subparagraph shall be deemed to prohibit the discontinuance or modification of any such proceeding under the same terms and conditions and to the same extent that such proceeding could have been discontinued or modified if this subsection had not been enacted.

“(C) Suits not affected.—The provisions of this subsection shall not affect suits commenced before the effective date of this subsection, and in all such suits, proceedings shall be had, appeals taken, and judgments rendered in the same manner and with the same effect as if this subsection had not been enacted.

“(D) Nonabatement of actions.—No suit, action, or other proceeding commenced by or against the ACTION Agency, or by or against any individual in the official capacity of such individual as an officer of the ACTION Agency, shall abate by reason of the enactment of this subsection.

“(E) Administrative actions relating to promulgation of regulations.—Any administrative action relating to the preparation or promulgation of a regulation by the ACTION Agency relating to a function transferred under this subsection may be continued by the Corporation with the same effect as if this subsection had not been enacted.


“(9) Severability.—If a provision of this subsection or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, neither the remainder of this subsection nor the application of the provision to other persons or circumstances shall be affected.

“(10) Transition.—Prior to, or after, any transfer of a function under this subsection, the Chief Executive Officer is authorized to utilize—“(A) the services of such officers, employees, and other personnel of the ACTION Agency with respect to functions that will be or have been transferred to the Corporation by this subsection; and

“(B) funds appropriated to such functions for such period of time as may reasonably be needed to facilitate the orderly implementation of this subsection.”





Study To Examine and Increase Service Programs for Displaced Workers in Services Corps and Community Service and To Develop Pilot Program Planning StudyPub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1710, Apr. 21, 2009, 123 Stat. 1549, provided that:
“(a) Planning Study.—The Corporation shall conduct a study to identify—“(1) specific areas of need for displaced workers;

“(2) how existing programs and activities (as of the time of the study) carried out under the national service laws could better serve displaced workers and communities that have been adversely affected by plant closings and job losses;

“(3) prospects for better utilization of displaced workers as resources and volunteers; and

“(4) methods for ensuring the efficient financial organization of services directed towards displaced workers.


“(b) Consultation.—The study shall be carried out in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, State labor agencies, and other individuals and entities the Corporation considers appropriate.

“(c) Report.—Not later than 1 year after the effective date of this Act [for general effective date of Pub. L. 111–13 as Oct. 1, 2009, see Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under section 4950 of this title], the Corporation shall submit to the authorizing committees a report on the results of the planning study required by subsection (a), together with a plan for implementation of a pilot program using promising strategies and approaches for better targeting and serving displaced workers.

“(d) Pilot Program.—From amounts made available to carry out this section, the Corporation shall develop and carry out a pilot program based on the findings and plan in the report submitted under subsection (c).

“(e) Definitions.—In this section, the terms ‘Corporation’, ‘authorizing committees’, and ‘national service laws’ have the meanings given the terms in section 101 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12511).

“(f) Authorization of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2014.”




Continuing Performance of Certain Functions by Commission on National and Community ServicePub. L. 103–82, title II, § 202(d), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 888, provided that: “The individuals who, on the day before the date of enactment of this Act [Sept. 21, 1993], are performing any of the functions required by section 190 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12651), as in effect on such date, to be performed by the members of the Board of Directors of the Commission on National and Community Service may, subject to section 193A of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 [42 U.S.C. 12651d], as added by subsection (a) of this section, continue to perform such functions until the date on which the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service conducts the first meeting of the Board. The service of such individuals as members of the Board of Directors of such Commission, and the employment of such individuals as special Government employees, shall terminate on such date.”


Business Plan for Corporation for National and Community ServicePub. L. 103–82, title II, § 204, Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 895, provided that:
“(a) Business Plan Required.—“(1) In general.—The Corporation for National and Community Service (referred to in this section as the ‘Corporation’) shall prepare and submit to Congress a business plan. The Corporation may not provide assistance under section 121 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 [42 U.S.C. 12571] before the twentieth day of continuous session of Congress after the date on which the Corporation submits the business plan to Congress.

“(2) Computation.—For purposes of the computation of the 20-day period referred to in paragraph (1), continuity of a session of the Congress shall be considered to be broken only by—“(A) an adjournment of the Congress sine die; and

“(B) the days on which either House is not in session because of an adjournment of more than 3 days to a date certain.



“(b) Required Elements of Business Plan.—“(1) Allocation of funds.—The business plan shall contain—“(A) a description of the manner in which the Corporation will allocate funds for programs carried out by the Corporation after October 1, 1993;

“(B) information on the principal offices and officers of the Corporation that will allocate such funds; and

“(C) information that indicates how accountability for such funds can be determined, in terms of the office or officer responsible for such funds.


“(2) Investigative and audit functions.—The business plan shall include a description of the plans of the Corporation—“(A) to ensure continuity, during the transition period, and after the transition period, in the investigative and audit functions carried out by the Inspector General of ACTION prior to such period, consistent with the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.); and

“(B) to carry out investigative and audit functions and implement financial management controls regarding programs carried out by the Corporation after October 1, 1993, consistent with the Inspector General Act of 1978, including a specific description of—“(i) the manner in which the Office of Inspector General shall be established in the Corporation, in accordance with section 194(b) of the National Community Service Act of 1990 [42 U.S.C. 12651e(b)], as added by section 202 of this Act; and

“(ii) the manner in which grants made by the Corporation shall be audited by such Office and the financial management controls that shall apply with regard to such grants and programs.



“(3) Accountability measures.—The business plan shall include a detailed description of the accountability measures to be established by the Corporation to ensure effective control of all funds for programs carried out by the Corporation after October 1, 1993.

“(4) Information resources.—The business plan shall include a description of an information resource management program that will support the program and financial management needs of the Corporation.

“(5) Corporation staffing and integration of action.—“(A) Transfers.—The business plan shall include a report on the progress and plans of the President for transferring the functions, programs, and related personnel of ACTION to the Corporation, and shall include a timetable for the transfer.

“(B) Details and assignments.—The report shall specify the number of ACTION employees detailed or assigned to the Corporation, and describe the hiring activity of the Corporation, during the transition period.

“(C) Structure.—The business plan shall include a description of the organizational structure of the Corporation during the transition period.

“(D) Staffing.—The business plan shall include a description of—“(i) measures to ensure adequate staffing during the transition period with respect to programs carried out by the Corporation after October 1, 1993; and

“(ii) the responsibilities and authorities of the Managing Directors and other key personnel of the Corporation.


“(E) Senior executive service.—The business plan shall include—“(i) an explanation of the number of the employees of the Corporation who will be paid at or above the rate of pay for level 1 of the Senior Executive Service Schedule under section 5382 of title 5, United States Code; and

“(ii) information justifying such pay for such employees.



“(6) Duplication of functions.—The business plan shall include a description of the measures that the Corporation is taking or will take to minimize duplication of functions in the Corporation caused by the transfer of the functions of the Commission on National and Community Service, and the transfer of the functions of ACTION, to the Corporation. This description shall address functions at both the national and State levels.


“(c) Definition.—The term ‘transition period’ means the period beginning on October 1, 1993 and ending on the day before the effective date of section 203(c)(2) [see Effective Date of 1993 Amendment note above].”





Proc. No. 6662. Transfer of Functions of ACTION Agency to Corporation for National and Community Service
Proc. No. 6662, Apr. 4, 1994, 59 F.R. 16507, provided:
On September 21, 1993, I had the honor of signing into law the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 [Pub. L. 103–82, see Tables for classification], which created the Corporation for National and Community Service. The Corporation was designed to involve Americans of all ages and backgrounds in community projects to address many of our Nation’s most important needs—from educating our children to ensuring public safety to protecting our environment. It was chartered to foster civic responsibility, strengthening the ties that bind us together as a people, while providing educational opportunity for those who make the commitment to serve.
In the few short months since the Corporation’s establishment, enormous progress has been made toward the achievement of these invaluable goals. Final regulations have been published governing the Corporation’s new grant programs, grant application packages have been developed, and a national recruitment effort has begun. As a result of intensive outreach efforts, most states have already established State Commissions on National and Community Service, and many local programs, national nonprofit organizations, institutions of higher education, and Federal agencies are eager to participate. Grant competitions have begun for a summer program that will focus on our Nation’s public safety concerns, and all community service grant competitions will be completed by this summer. Finally, the Corporation has established the National Civilian Community Corps, which will take advantage of closed and down-sized military bases to launch environmental clean-up and preservation efforts.
The ACTION Agency, provided for by the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 [42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.], has worked closely with the Corporation, sharing its many years of experience in engaging Americans in service to their communities. Because the Corporation’s initiatives and those programs operated by the ACTION Agency involve similar goals, the National and Community Service Trust Act calls for the merger of ACTION with the Corporation no later than March 22, 1995. To build upon the tremendous accomplishments already achieved by the Corporation, and to facilitate the further development of community service programs across the country, I am pleased to order that the functions of the Director of the ACTION Agency be transferred to the Corporation for National and Community Service.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, WILLIAM J. CLINTON, President of the United States of America, acting under the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including but not limited to sections 203(c)(2) and (d)(1)(B) of the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 [set out above], proclaim that all functions of the Director of the ACTION Agency are hereby transferred to the Corporation for National and Community Service, effective April 4, 1994.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.

William J. Clinton.



Ex. Ord. No. 12819. Establishing Presidential Youth Award for Community Service
Ex. Ord. No. 12819, Oct. 28, 1992, 57 F.R. 49369, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 12651 of title 42 of the United States Code [see 42 U.S.C. 12653a], it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. A youth award for community service is hereby established. The award shall recognize outstanding voluntary community service contributions made by individuals between the ages of 5 and 22.
Sec. 2. The Director of the White House Office of National Service shall establish the criteria for the award. The criteria shall be based upon participation in voluntary community service activity. The award may be bestowed upon any eligible individual who meets the established criteria.
Sec. 3. The selection process for the award shall be administered by the Commission on National and Community Service and the White House Office of National Service. Such other individuals and entities as the Director of the White House Office of National Service deems appropriate may participate in the selection process.
Sec. 4. The award shall be presented by the President, his designee or designees, or individuals designated by the Director of the White House Office of National Service.
Sec. 5. The name and design of the award shall be approved by the President upon the recommendation of the Director of the White House Office of National Service.

George Bush.



Ex. Ord. No. 13285. President’s Council on Service and Civic Participation
Ex. Ord. No. 13285, Jan. 29, 2003, 68 F.R. 5203, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 13371, Jan. 27, 2005, 70 F.R. 5041; Ex. Ord. No. 13424, Jan. 26, 2007, 72 F.R. 4409; Ex. Ord. No. 13471, Aug. 28, 2008, 73 F.R. 51209, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to encourage the recognition of volunteer service and civic participation by all Americans, and especially America’s youth, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. The President’s Council on Service and Civic Participation. (a) There is hereby established within the Corporation for National and Community Services [Service] (CNCS) the President’s Council on Service and Civic Participation (Council).
(b) The Council shall be composed of up to 25 members, including representatives of America’s youth, appointed by the President. Each member shall serve for a term of 2 years and may continue to serve after the expiration of their term until a successor is appointed. The President shall designate one member to serve as Chair and one member to serve as Vice Chair. Subject to the direction of the Chief Executive Officer of the CNCS, the Chair, and in the Chair’s absence the Vice Chair, shall convene and preside at the meetings of the Council, determine its agenda, and direct its work.
(c) To conduct and vote on official business during meetings, the Council must convene a quorum of at least 10 Council members.
Sec. 2. Mission and Functions of the Council.
(a) The mission and functions of the Council shall be to:
(i) promote volunteer service and civic participation in American society;
(ii) encourage the recognition of outstanding volunteer service through the presentation of the President’s Volunteer Service Award by Council members and Certifying Organizations, thereby encouraging more such activity;
(iii) promote the efforts and needs of local non-profits and volunteer organizations, including volunteer centers;
(iv) promote greater public access to information about existing volunteer opportunities, including via the Internet;
(v) assist with the promotion of Federally administered volunteer programs and the link that they have to increasing and strengthening community volunteer service; and
(vi) promote increased and sustained private sector sponsorship of and engagement in volunteer service.
(b) In carrying out its mission, the Council shall:
(i) encourage broad participation in the President’s Volunteer Service Award program by qualified individuals and groups, especially students in primary schools, secondary schools, and institutions of higher learning;
(ii) exchange information and ideas with interested individuals and organizations on ways to expand and improve volunteer service and civic participation;
(iii) advise the Chief Executive Officer of the CNCS on broad dissemination, especially among schools and youth organizations, of information regarding recommended practices for the promotion of volunteer service and civic participation, and other relevant educational and promotional materials;
(iv) monitor and advise the Chief Executive Officer of the CNCS on the need for the enhancement of materials disseminated pursuant to subsection 2(b)(iii) of this order; and
(v) make recommendations from time to time to the President, through the Director of the USA Freedom Corps, on ways to encourage greater levels of volunteer service and civic participation by individuals, schools, and organizations.
Sec. 3. Administration. (a) Each Federal agency, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, shall furnish such information and assistance to the Council as the Council may, with the approval of the Director of the USA Freedom Corps, request.
(b) The members of the Council shall serve without compensation for their work on the Council. Members of the Council who are not officers or employees of the United States may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in the Government (5 U.S.C. 5701–5707).
(c) To the extent permitted by law, the Chief Executive Officer of the CNCS shall furnish the Council with necessary staff, supplies, facilities, and other administrative services and shall pay the expenses of the Council.
(d) The Chief Executive Officer of the CNCS shall appoint an Executive Director to head the staff of the Council.
(e) The Council, with the approval of the Chief Executive Officer of the CNCS, may establish subcommittees of the Council, consisting exclusively of members of the Council, as appropriate to aid the Council in carrying out its mission under this order.
Sec. 4. General Provisions. (a) Insofar as the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. App.) (Act), may apply to the administration of any portion of this order, any functions of the President under the Act, except that of reporting to the Congress, shall be performed by the Chief Executive Officer of CNCS in accordance with the guidelines and procedures issued by the Administrator of General Services.
(b) Unless further extended by the President, this order shall expire on June 30, 2009.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity, by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

George W. Bush.



