“Section 163“In order to carry out the policy set forth in this Article, the Government of the United States and the Government of Palau agree to the following undertakings.“(a) The Government of the United States:“(1) shall apply environmental standards substantively similar to those in effect on the day preceding the effective date of this Compact to any activity requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement under the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 83 Stat. 852, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.

“(2) shall develop, prior to conducting any activity included within the category described in this Section, appropriate mechanisms, including regulations or other standards and procedures, to regulate such activity in Palau in a manner appropriate to the special governmental relationship set forth in this Compact. The Government of the United States shall provide the Government of Palau with the opportunity to comment formally during the development of such mechanisms.


“(b) The Government of Palau shall develop standards and procedures to protect the environment of Palau. As a reciprocal obligation to the undertakings of the Government of the United States under this Article, the Government of Palau, taking into account the particular environment of Palau, shall develop standards for environmental protection substantively similar to those required of the Government of the United States by Section 163(a)(1) prior to conducting activities in Palau substantively equivalent to activities conducted there by the Government of the United States and, as a further reciprocal obligation, shall enforce those standards.

“(c) Section 163(a), including any standard or procedure applicable thereunder, and Section 163(b) may be modified or superseded in whole or in part by agreement of the Government of the United States and the Government of Palau.

“(d) Disputes arising under this Article, except for Section 163(e), shall be resolved exclusively in accordance with Article II of Title Four.

“(e) The President of the United States may exempt any of the activities of the Government of the United States under this Compact and its related agreements from any environmental standard or procedure which may be applicable under this Article if the President determines it to be in the paramount interest of the Government of the United States to do so, consistent with Title Three of this Compact and the obligations of the Government of the United States under international law. Prior to any decision pursuant to this subsection, the views of the Government of Palau shall be sought and considered to the extent practicable. If the President grants such an exemption, to the extent practicable, a report with his reasons for granting such exemption shall be given promptly to the Government of Palau.

