§ 300aa–14. Vaccine Injury Table(a) Initial tableThe following is a table of vaccines, the injuries, disabilities, illnesses, conditions, and deaths resulting from the administration of such vaccines, and the time period in which the first symptom or manifestation of onset or of the significant aggravation of such injuries, disabilities, illnesses, conditions, and deaths is to occur after vaccine administration for purposes of receiving compensation under the Program:








VACCINE INJURY TABLE






I.DTP; P; DTP/Polio Combination; or Any Other Vaccine Containing Whole Cell Pertussis Bacteria, Extracted or Partial Cell Bacteria, or Specific Pertussis Antigen(s). 
 Illness, disability, injury, or condition covered:Time period for first symptom or manifestation of onset or of significant aggravation after vaccine administration:
 A. Anaphylaxis or anaphylactic shock24 hours
 B. Encephalopathy (or encephalitis) 3 days
 C. Shock-collapse or hypotonic-hyporesponsive collapse 3 days
 D. Residual seizure disorder in accordance with subsection (b)(2) 3 days
 E. Any acute complication or sequela (including death) of an illness, disability, injury, or condition referred to above which illness, disability, injury, or condition arose within the time period prescribedNot applicable
II.Measles, mumps, rubella, or any vaccine containing any of the foregoing as a component; DT; Td; or Tetanus Toxoid. 
 A. Anaphylaxis or anaphylactic shock24 hours
 B. Encephalopathy (or encephalitis)15 days (for mumps, rubella, measles, or any vaccine containing any of the foregoing as a component). 3 days (for DT, Td, or tetanus toxoid).
 C. Residual seizure disorder in accordance with subsection (b)(2)15 days (for mumps, rubella, measles, or any vaccine containing any of the foregoing as a component). 3 days (for DT, Td, or tetanus toxoid).
 D. Any acute complication or sequela (including death) of an illness, disability, injury, or condition referred to above which illness, disability, injury, or condition arose within the time period prescribedNot applicable
III.Polio Vaccines (other than Inactivated Polio Vaccine).
 A. Paralytic polio 
 —in a non-immunodeficient recipient30 days
 —in an immunodeficient recipient 6 months
 —in a vaccine-associated community caseNot applicable
 B. Any acute complication or sequela (including death) of an illness, disability, injury, or condition referred to above which illness, disability, injury, or condition arose within the time period prescribedNot applicable
IV.Inactivated Polio Vaccine. 
 A. Anaphylaxis or anaphylactic shock24 hours
 B. Any acute complication or sequela (including death) of an illness, disability, injury, or condition referred to above which illness, disability, injury, or condition arose within the time period prescribedNot applicable





(b) Qualifications and aids to interpretationThe following qualifications and aids to interpretation shall apply to the Vaccine Injury Table in subsection (a) of this section:(1) A shock-collapse or a hypotonic-hyporesponsive collapse may be evidenced by indicia or symptoms such as decrease or loss of muscle tone, paralysis (partial or complete), hemiplegia or hemiparesis, loss of color or turning pale white or blue, unresponsiveness to environmental stimuli, depression of consciousness, loss of consciousness, prolonged sleeping with difficulty arousing, or cardiovascular or respiratory arrest.

(2) A petitioner may be considered to have suffered a residual seizure disorder if the petitioner did not suffer a seizure or convulsion unaccompanied by fever or accompanied by a fever of less than 102 degrees Fahrenheit before the first seizure or convulsion after the administration of the vaccine involved and if—(A) in the case of a measles, mumps, or rubella vaccine or any combination of such vaccines, the first seizure or convulsion occurred within 15 days after administration of the vaccine and 2 or more seizures or convulsions occurred within 1 year after the administration of the vaccine which were unaccompanied by fever or accompanied by a fever of less than 102 degrees Fahrenheit, and

(B) in the case of any other vaccine, the first seizure or convulsion occurred within 3 days after administration of the vaccine and 2 or more seizures or convulsions occurred within 1 year after the administration of the vaccine which were unaccompanied by fever or accompanied by a fever of less than 102 degrees Fahrenheit.


(3)(A) The term “encephalopathy” means any significant acquired abnormality of, or injury to, or impairment of function of the brain. Among the frequent manifestations of encephalopathy are focal and diffuse neurologic signs, increased intracranial pressure, or changes lasting at least 6 hours in level of consciousness, with or without convulsions. The neurological signs and symptoms of encephalopathy may be temporary with complete recovery, or may result in various degrees of permanent impairment. Signs and symptoms such as high pitched and unusual screaming, persistent unconsolable crying, and bulging fontanel are compatible with an encephalopathy, but in and of themselves are not conclusive evidence of encephalopathy. Encephalopathy usually can be documented by slow wave activity on an electroencephalogram.

(B) If in a proceeding on a petition it is shown by a preponderance of the evidence that an encephalopathy was caused by infection, toxins, trauma, or metabolic disturbances the encephalopathy shall not be considered to be a condition set forth in the table. If at the time a judgment is entered on a petition filed under section 300aa–11 of this title for a vaccine-related injury or death it is not possible to determine the cause, by a preponderance of the evidence, of an encepha­lopathy, the encephalopathy shall be considered to be a condition set forth in the table. In determining whether or not an encepha­lopathy is a condition set forth in the table, the court shall consider the entire medical record.


(4) For purposes of paragraphs (2) and (3), the terms “seizure” and “convulsion” include grand mal, petit mal, absence, myoclonic, tonic-clonic, and focal motor seizures and signs. If a provision of the table to which paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) applies is revised under subsection (c) or (d) of this section, such paragraph shall not apply to such provision after the effective date of the revision unless the revision specifies that such paragraph is to continue to apply.


(c) Administrative revision of table(1) The Secretary may promulgate regulations to modify in accordance with paragraph (3) the Vaccine Injury Table. In promulgating such regulations, the Secretary shall provide for notice and opportunity for a public hearing and at least 180 days of public comment.

(2) Any person (including the Advisory Commission on Childhood Vaccines) may petition the Secretary to propose regulations to amend the Vaccine Injury Table. Unless clearly frivolous, or initiated by the Commission, any such petition shall be referred to the Commission for its recommendations. Following—(A) receipt of any recommendation of the Commission, or

(B) 180 days after the date of the referral to the Commission,


whichever occurs first, the Secretary shall conduct a rulemaking proceeding on the matters proposed in the petition or publish in the Federal Register a statement of reasons for not conducting such proceeding.

(3) A modification of the Vaccine Injury Table under paragraph (1) may add to, or delete from, the list of injuries, disabilities, illnesses, conditions, and deaths for which compensation may be provided or may change the time periods for the first symptom or manifestation of the onset or the significant aggravation of any such injury, disability, illness, condition, or death.

(4) Any modification under paragraph (1) of the Vaccine Injury Table shall apply only with respect to petitions for compensation under the Program which are filed after the effective date of such regulation.


(d) Role of CommissionExcept with respect to a regulation recommended by the Advisory Commission on Childhood Vaccines, the Secretary may not propose a regulation under subsection (c) of this section or any revision thereof, unless the Secretary has first provided to the Commission a copy of the proposed regulation or revision, requested recommendations and comments by the Commission, and afforded the Commission at least 90 days to make such recommendations.


(e) Additional vaccines(1) Vaccines recommended before August 1, 1993By August 1, 1995, the Secretary shall revise the Vaccine Injury Table included in subsection (a) of this section to include—(A) vaccines which are recommended to the Secretary by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention before August 1, 1993, for routine administration to children,

(B) the injuries, disabilities, illnesses, conditions, and deaths associated with such vaccines, and

(C) the time period in which the first symptoms or manifestations of onset or other significant aggravation of such injuries, disabilities, illnesses, conditions, and deaths associated with such vaccines may occur.


(2) Vaccines recommended after August 1, 1993When after August 1, 1993, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends a vaccine to the Secretary for routine administration to children, the Secretary shall, within 2 years of such recommendation, amend the Vaccine Injury Table included in subsection (a) of this section to include—(A) vaccines which were recommended for routine administration to children,

(B) the injuries, disabilities, illnesses, conditions, and deaths associated with such vaccines, and

(C) the time period in which the first symptoms or manifestations of onset or other significant aggravation of such injuries, disabilities, illnesses, conditions, and deaths associated with such vaccines may occur.



(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XXI, § 2114, as added Pub. L. 99–660, title III, § 311(a), Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3764; amended Pub. L. 101–239, title VI, § 6601(k), Dec. 19, 1989, 103 Stat. 2290; Pub. L. 103–66, title XIII, § 13632(a)(2), Aug. 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 645.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 300aa–14, act July 1, 1944, § 2115, was successively renumbered by subsequent acts and transferred, see section 238l of this title.
A prior section 2114 of act July 1, 1944, was successively renumbered by subsequent acts and transferred, see section 238k of this title.

Amendments1993—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 103–66 amended heading and text of subsec. (e) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary may recommend to Congress revisions of the table to change the vaccines covered by the table.”
1989—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 101–239, § 6601(k)(1), substituted “(b)(2)” for “(c)(2)” in items I.D. and II.C. in table.
Subsec. (b)(3)(B). Pub. L. 101–239, § 6601(k)(2), substituted “300aa–11 of this title” for “300aa–11(b) of this title”.

Effective Date of 1989 AmendmentFor applicability of amendments by Pub. L. 101–239 to petitions filed after Dec. 19, 1989, petitions currently pending in which the evidentiary record is closed, and petitions currently pending in which the evidentiary record is not closed, with provision for an immediate suspension for 30 days of all pending cases, see section 6601(s)(1) of Pub. L. 101–239, set out as a note under section 300aa–10 of this title.

Revisions of Vaccine Injury TableThe Vaccine Injury Table as modified by regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Health and Human Services is set out at 42 CFR 100.3.
Pub. L. 103–66, title XIII, § 13632(a)(3), Aug. 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 646, provided that: “A revision by the Secretary under section 2114(e) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300aa–14(e)) (as amended by paragraph (2)) shall take effect upon the effective date of a tax enacted to provide funds for compensation paid with respect to the vaccine to be added to the vaccine injury table in section 2114(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300aa–14(a)).”



