§ 12713. Eligibility under first-time homebuyer programs(a) Eligibility of displaced homemakers and single parents for Federal assistance for first-time homebuyers(1) Displaced homemakersNo individual who is a displaced homemaker may be denied eligibility under any Federal program to assist first-time homebuyers on the basis that the individual, while a homemaker, owned a home with his or her spouse or resided in a home owned by the spouse.


(2) Single parentsNo individual who is a single parent may be denied eligibility under any Federal program to assist first-time homebuyers on the basis that the individual, while married, owned a home with his or her spouse or resided in a home owned by the spouse.



(b) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section:(1) Displaced homemakerThe term “displaced homemaker” means an individual who—(A) is an adult;

(B) has not worked full-time, full-year in the labor force for a number of years but has, during such years, worked primarily without remuneration to care for the home and family; and

(C) is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in obtaining or upgrading employment.


(2) First-time homebuyerThe term “first-time homebuyer” means an individual who has never, or has not during a specified period of time, had any present ownership interest in a principal residence.


(3) Single parentThe term “single parent” means an individual who—(A) is unmarried or legally separated from a spouse; and

(B)(i) has 1 or more minor children for whom the individual has custody or joint custody; or

(ii) is pregnant.




(c) ApplicabilityThis section shall apply to any Federal program to assist first-time homebuyers, unless the program is exempted from this section by a statute that amends this subsection or explicitly refers to this subsection.


(Pub. L. 101–625, title IX, § 956, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4421.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of title IX of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, and not as part of title I of such Act which comprises this subchapter.


