“SEC. 303. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.“(a) Establishment.—There is established a commission to be known as the Denali Commission (referred to in this title as the ‘Commission’).

“(b) Membership.—“(1) Composition.—The Commission shall be composed of 7 members, who shall be appointed by the Secretary of Commerce (referred to in this title as the ‘Secretary’), of whom—“(A) one shall be the Governor of the State of Alaska, or an individual selected from nominations submitted by the Governor, who shall serve as the State Cochairperson;

“(B) one shall be the President of the University of Alaska, or an individual selected from nominations submitted by the President of the University of Alaska;

“(C) one shall be the President of the Alaska Municipal League or an individual selected from nominations submitted by the President of the Alaska Municipal League;

“(D) one shall be the President of the Alaska Federation of Natives or an individual selected from nominations submitted by the President of the Alaska Federation of Natives;

“(E) one shall be the Executive President of the Alaska State AFL–CIO or an individual selected from nominations submitted by the Executive President;

“(F) one shall be the President of the Associated General Contractors of Alaska or an individual selected from nominations submitted by the President of the Associated General Contractors of Alaska; and

“(G) one shall be the Federal Cochairperson, who shall be selected in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (2).


“(2) Federal cochairperson.—“(A) In general.—The President pro temporare [sic] of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall each submit a list of nominations for the position of the Federal Cochairperson under paragraph (1)(G), including pertinent biographical information, to the Secretary.

“(B) Appointment.—The Secretary shall appoint the Federal Cochairperson from among the list of nominations submitted under subparagraph (A). The Federal Cochairperson shall serve as an employee of the Department of Commerce, and may be removed by the Secretary for cause.

“(C) Federal cochairperson vote.—The Federal Cochairperson appointed under this paragraph shall break any tie in the voting of the Commission.


“(4) Date.—The appointments of the members of the Commission shall be made no later than January 1, 1999.


“(c) Period of Appointment; Vacancies.—The Federal Cochairperson shall serve for a term of four years and may be reappointed. All other members shall be appointed for the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.

“(d) Meetings.—“(1) In general.—The Commission shall meet at the call of the Federal Cochairperson not less frequently than 2 times each year, and may, as appropriate, conduct business by telephone or other electronic means.

“(2) Notification.—Not later than 2 weeks before calling a meeting under this subsection, the Federal Cochairperson shall—“(A) notify each member of the Commission of the time, date and location of that meeting; and

“(B) provide each member of the Commission with a written agenda for the meeting, including any proposals for discussion and consideration, and any appropriate background materials.



“(e) Quorum.—A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.

