§ 10008. Applicability to Federal agencies(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, each department, agency, and instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal Government shall comply with standards promulgated pursuant to this chapter.

(b) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, through the Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs, shall, to the maximum extent feasible consistent with the responsibilities of such Secretary and Under Secretary for Health under title 38, prescribe regulations making the standards promulgated pursuant to this chapter applicable to the provision of radiologic procedures in facilities over which that Secretary has jurisdiction. In prescribing and implementing regulations pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall consult with the Secretary in order to achieve the maximum possible coordination of the regulations, standards, and guidelines, and the implementation thereof, which the Secretary and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs prescribe under this chapter.

(Pub. L. 97–35, title IX, § 983, Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 601; Pub. L. 102–54, § 13(q)(13)(C), June 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 282; Pub. L. 102–405, title III, § 302(e)(1), Oct. 9, 1992, 106 Stat. 1985.)

Amendments1992—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 102–405 substituted “Under Secretary for Health” for “Chief Medical Director” in two places.
1991—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 102–54 substituted “The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, through the Chief Medical Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs, shall, to the maximum extent feasible consistent with the responsibilities of such Secretary and Chief Medical Director under title 38” for “(1) The Administrator of Veterans’ Affairs, through the Chief Medical Director of the Veterans’ Administration, shall, to the maximum extent feasible consistent with the responsibilities of such Administrator and Chief Medical Director under subtitle 38”, “over which that Secretary” for “over which the Administrator”, and “Secretary of Veterans Affairs” for “Administrator” wherever else appearing, and struck out pars. (2) and (3) which read as follows:
“(2) Not later than 180 days after standards are promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to this chapter, the Administrator of Veterans’ Affairs shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a full report with respect to the regulations (including guidelines, policies, and procedures thereunder) prescribed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection. Such report shall include—
“(A) an explanation of any inconsistency between standards made applicable by such regulations and the standards promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to this chapter;
“(B) an account of the extent, substance, and results of consultations with the Secretary respecting the prescription and implementation of regulations by the Administrator; and
“(C) such recommendations for legislation and administrative action as the Administrator determines are necessary and desirable.
“(3) The Administrator of Veterans’ Affairs shall publish the report required by paragraph (2) in the Federal Register.”


