§ 17243. Bright Tomorrow Lighting Prizes(a) EstablishmentNot later than 1 year after December 19, 2007, as part of the program carried out under section 16396 of this title, the Secretary shall establish and award Bright Tomorrow Lighting Prizes for solid state lighting in accordance with this section.


(b) Prize specifications(1) 60-Watt Incandescent Replacement Lamp PrizeThe Secretary shall award a 60-Watt Incandescent Replacement Lamp Prize to an entrant that produces a solid-state-light package simultaneously capable of—(A) producing a luminous flux greater than 900 lumens;

(B) consuming less than or equal to 10 watts;

(C) having an efficiency greater than 90 lumens per watt;

(D) having a color rendering index greater than 90;

(E) having a correlated color temperature of not less than 2,750, and not more than 3,000, degrees Kelvin;

(F) having 70 percent of the lumen value under subparagraph (A) exceeding 25,000 hours under typical conditions expected in residential use;

(G) having a light distribution pattern similar to a soft 60-watt incandescent A19 bulb;

(H) having a size and shape that fits within the maximum dimensions of an A19 bulb in accordance with American National Standards Institute standard C78.20–2003, figure C78.20–211;

(I) using a single contact medium screw socket; and

(J) mass production for a competitive sales commercial market satisfied by producing commercially accepted quality control lots of such units equal to or exceeding the criteria described in subparagraphs (A) through (I).


(2) PAR Type 38 Halogen Replacement Lamp PrizeThe Secretary shall award a Parabolic Aluminized Reflector Type 38 Halogen Replacement Lamp Prize (referred to in this section as the “PAR Type 38 Halogen Replacement Lamp Prize”) to an entrant that produces a solid-state-light package simultaneously capable of—(A) producing a luminous flux greater than or equal to 1,350 lumens;

(B) consuming less than or equal to 11 watts;

(C) having an efficiency greater than 123 lumens per watt;

(D) having a color rendering index greater than or equal to 90;

(E) having a correlated color coordinate temperature of not less than 2,750, and not more than 3,000, degrees Kelvin;

(F) having 70 percent of the lumen value under subparagraph (A) exceeding 25,000 hours under typical conditions expected in residential use;

(G) having a light distribution pattern similar to a PAR 38 halogen lamp;

(H) having a size and shape that fits within the maximum dimensions of a PAR 38 halogen lamp in accordance with American National Standards Institute standard C78–21–2003, figure C78.21–238;

(I) using a single contact medium screw socket; and

(J) mass production for a competitive sales commercial market satisfied by producing commercially accepted quality control lots of such units equal to or exceeding the criteria described in subparagraphs (A) through (I).


(3) Twenty-First Century Lamp PrizeThe Secretary shall award a Twenty-First Century Lamp Prize to an entrant that produces a solid-state-light-light 11 So in original. capable of—(A) producing a light output greater than 1,200 lumens;

(B) having an efficiency greater than 150 lumens per watt;

(C) having a color rendering index greater than 90;

(D) having a color coordinate temperature between 2,800 and 3,000 degrees Kelvin; and

(E) having a lifetime exceeding 25,000 hours.



(c) Private funds(1) In generalSubject to paragraph (2), and notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, the Secretary may accept, retain, and use funds contributed by any person, government entity, or organization for purposes of carrying out this subsection—(A) without further appropriation; and

(B) without fiscal year limitation.


(2) Prize competitionA private source of funding may not participate in the competition for prizes awarded under this section.



(d) Technical reviewThe Secretary shall establish a technical review committee composed of non-Federal officers to review entrant data submitted under this section to determine whether the data meets the prize specifications described in subsection (b).


(e) Third party administrationThe Secretary may competitively select a third party to administer awards under this section.


(f) Eligibility for prizesTo be eligible to be awarded a prize under this section—(1) in the case of a private entity, the entity shall be incorporated in and maintain a primary place of business in the United States; and

(2) in the case of an individual (whether participating as a single individual or in a group), the individual shall be a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States.


(g) Award amountsSubject to the availability of funds to carry out this section, the amount of—(1) the 60-Watt Incandescent Replacement Lamp Prize described in subsection (b)(1) shall be $10,000,000;

(2) the PAR Type 38 Halogen Replacement Lamp Prize described in subsection (b)(2) shall be $5,000,000; and

(3) the Twenty-First Century Lamp Prize described in subsection (b)(3) shall be $5,000,000.


(h) Federal procurement of solid-state-lights(1) 60-watt incandescent replacementSubject to paragraph (3), as soon as practicable after the successful award of the 60-Watt Incandescent Replacement Lamp Prize under subsection (b)(1), the Secretary (in consultation with the Administrator of General Services) shall develop governmentwide Federal purchase guidelines with a goal of replacing the use of 60-watt incandescent lamps in Federal Government buildings with a solid-state-light package described in subsection (b)(1) by not later than the date that is 5 years after the date the award is made.


(2) PAR 38 halogen replacement lamp replacement 1Subject to paragraph (3), as soon as practicable after the successful award of the PAR Type 38 Halogen Replacement Lamp Prize under subsection (b)(2), the Secretary (in consultation with the Administrator of General Services) shall develop governmentwide Federal purchase guidelines with the goal of replacing the use of PAR 38 halogen lamps in Federal Government buildings with a solid-state-light package described in subsection (b)(2) by not later than the date that is 5 years after the date the award is made.


(3) Waivers(A) In generalThe Secretary or the Administrator of General Services may waive the application of paragraph (1) or (2) if the Secretary or Administrator determines that the return on investment from the purchase of a solid-state-light package described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (b), respectively, is cost prohibitive.


(B) Report of waiverIf the Secretary or Administrator waives the application of paragraph (1) or (2), the Secretary or Administrator, respectively, shall submit to Congress an annual report that describes the waiver and provides a detailed justification for the waiver.




(i) ReportNot later than 2 years after December 19, 2007, and annually thereafter, the Administrator of General Services shall submit to the Energy Information Agency a report describing the quantity, type, and cost of each lighting product purchased by the Federal Government.


(j) Bright Tomorrow Lighting Award Fund(1) EstablishmentThere is established in the United States Treasury a Bright Tomorrow Lighting permanent fund without fiscal year limitation to award prizes under paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b).


(2) Sources of fundingThe fund established under paragraph (1) shall accept—(A) fiscal year appropriations; and

(B) private contributions authorized under subsection (c).



(k) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.


(Pub. L. 110–140, title VI, § 655, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1700.)
