§ 274f. Reimbursement of travel and subsistence expenses incurred toward living organ donation(a) In generalThe Secretary may award grants to States, transplant centers, qualified organ procurement organizations under section 273 of this title, or other public or private entities for the purpose of—(1) providing for the reimbursement of travel and subsistence expenses incurred by individuals toward making living donations of their organs (in this section referred to as “donating individuals”); and

(2) providing for the reimbursement of such incidental nonmedical expenses that are so incurred as the Secretary determines by regulation to be appropriate.


(b) PreferenceThe Secretary shall, in carrying out subsection (a) of this section, give preference to those individuals that the Secretary determines are more likely to be otherwise unable to meet such expenses.


(c) Certain circumstancesThe Secretary may, in carrying out subsection (a) of this section, consider—(1) the term “donating individuals” as including individuals who in good faith incur qualifying expenses toward the intended donation of an organ but with respect to whom, for such reasons as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, no donation of the organ occurs; and

(2) the term “qualifying expenses” as including the expenses of having relatives or other individuals, not to exceed 2, accompany or assist the donating individual for purposes of subsection (a) of this section (subject to making payment for only those types of expenses that are paid for a donating individual).


(d) Relationship to payments under other programsAn award may be made under subsection (a) of this section only if the applicant involved agrees that the award will not be expended to pay the qualifying expenses of a donating individual to the extent that payment has been made, or can reasonably be expected to be made, with respect to such expenses—(1) under any State compensation program, under an insurance policy, or under any Federal or State health benefits program;

(2) by an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis; or

(3) by the recipient of the organ.


(e) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section:(1) The term “donating individuals” has the meaning indicated for such term in subsection (a)(1) of this section, subject to subsection (c)(1) of this section.

(2) The term “qualifying expenses” means the expenses authorized for purposes of subsection (a) of this section, subject to subsection (c)(2) of this section.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsFor the purpose of carrying out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2005 through 2009.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 377, as added Pub. L. 101–616, title II, § 206(a), Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3285; amended Pub. L. 108–216, § 3, Apr. 5, 2004, 118 Stat. 584.)

Amendments2004—Pub. L. 108–216 amended section catchline and text generally, substituting provisions relating to reimbursement of travel and subsistence expenses incurred toward living organ donation for provisions requiring the Comptroller General to study and report on organ procurement and allocation.


