§ 5903. Duties and authorities of the Secretary
The Secretary shall—(a) review the current status of nonnuclear energy resources and current nonnuclear energy research and development activities, including research and development being conducted by Federal and non-Federal entities;

(b) formulate and carry out a comprehensive Federal nonnuclear energy research, development, and demonstration program which will expeditiously advance the policies established by this chapter and other relevant legislation establishing programs in specific energy technologies;

(c) utilize the funds authorized pursuant to this chapter to advance energy research and development by initiating and maintaining, through fund transfers, grants, or contracts, energy research, development and demonstration programs or activities utilizing the facilities, capabilities, expertise, and experience of Federal agencies, national laboratories, universities, nonprofit organizations, industrial entities, and other non-Federal entities which are appropriate to each type of research, development, and demonstration activity;

(d) establish procedures for periodic consultation with representatives of science, industry, environmental organizations, consumers, and other groups who have special expertise in the areas of energy research, development, and technology; and

(e) initiate programs to design, construct, and operate energy facilities of sufficient size to demonstrate the technical and economic feasibility of utilizing various forms of nonnuclear energy.

(Pub. L. 93–577, § 4, Dec. 31, 1974, 88 Stat. 1880; Pub. L. 109–58, title X, § 1009(b)(3), Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 934.)

Amendments2005—Pub. L. 109–58 added section catchline, struck out former catchline, and substituted “Secretary” for “Administrator” in introductory provisions.

Classification of Recipients of Awards, Contracts, or Other Financial Arrangements; Reporting RequirementPub. L. 95–39, title I, § 111, June 3, 1977, 91 Stat. 186, provided that:
“(a) The Administrator [now Secretary of Energy] shall classify each recipient of any award, contract, or other financial arrangement in any nonnuclear research, development, or demonstration category as—“(1) a Federal agency,

“(2) a non-Federal governmental entity,

“(3) a profitmaking enterprise (indicating whether or not it is a small business concern),

“(4) a nonprofit enterprise other than an educational institution, or

“(5) a nonprofit educational institution.


“(b) The information required by subsection (a), along with the dollar amount of each award, contract, or other financial arrangement made, shall be included as an appendix to the annual report required by section 15(a) of the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974 ([former] 42 U.S.C. 5914): Provided, That small purchases or contracts of less than $10,000, which are excepted from the requirements of advertising by section 252(c)(3) of [former] title 41, United States Code, shall be exempt from the reporting requirements of this section.”





