§ 300d–4. Emergency medical services(a) Federal Interagency Committee on Emergency Medical Services(1) EstablishmentThe Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response, shall establish a Federal Interagency Committee on Emergency Medical Services.


(2) MembershipThe Interagency Committee shall consist of the following officials, or their designees:(A) The Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.

(B) The Director, Preparedness Division, Directorate of Emergency Preparedness and Response of the Department of Homeland Security.

(C) The Administrator, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services.

(D) The Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services.

(E) The Administrator, United States Fire Administration, Directorate of Emergency Preparedness and Response of the Department of Homeland Security.

(F) The Administrator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services.

(G) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness.

(H) The Director, Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services.

(I) The Chief, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, Federal Communications Commission.

(J) A representative of any other Federal agency appointed by the Secretary of Transportation or the Secretary of Homeland Security through the Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as having a significant role in relation to the purposes of the Interagency Committee.

(K) A State emergency medical services director appointed by the Secretary.


(3) PurposesThe purposes of the Interagency Committee are as follows:(A) To ensure coordination among the Federal agencies involved with State, local, tribal, or regional emergency medical services and 9–1–1 systems.

(B) To identify State, local, tribal, or regional emergency medical services and 9–1–1 needs.

(C) To recommend new or expanded programs, including grant programs, for improving State, local, tribal, or regional emergency medical services and implementing improved emergency medical services communications technologies, including wireless 9–1–1.

(D) To identify ways to streamline the process through which Federal agencies support State, local, tribal or regional emergency medical services.

(E) To assist State, local, tribal or regional emergency medical services in setting priorities based on identified needs.

(F) To advise, consult, and make recommendations on matters relating to the implementation of the coordinated State emergency medical services programs.


(4) AdministrationThe Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, in cooperation with the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration of the Department of Health and Human Services and the Director of the Preparedness Division, Directorate of Emergency Preparedness and Response of the Department of Homeland Security, shall provide administrative support to the Interagency Committee, including scheduling meetings, setting agendas, keeping minutes and records, and producing reports.


(5) LeadershipThe members of the Interagency Committee shall select a chairperson of the Committee each year.


(6) MeetingsThe Interagency Committee shall meet as frequently as is determined necessary by the chairperson of the Committee.


(7) Annual reportsThe Interagency Committee shall prepare an annual report to Congress regarding the Committee’s activities, actions, and recommendations.



(b) National Emergency Medical Services Advisory Council(1) EstablishmentThe Secretary of Transportation, in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall establish a National Emergency Medical Services Advisory Council (referred to in this subsection as the “Advisory Council”).


(2) MembershipThe Advisory Council shall be composed of 25 members, who—(A) shall be appointed by the Secretary of Transportation; and

(B) shall collectively be representative of all sectors of the emergency medical services community.


(3) PurposesThe purposes of the Advisory Council are to advise and consult with—(A) the Federal Interagency Committee on Emergency Medical Services on matters relating to emergency medical services issues; and

(B) the Secretary of Transportation on matters relating to emergency medical services issues affecting the Department of Transportation.


(4) AdministrationThe Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration shall provide administrative support to the Advisory Council, including scheduling meetings, setting agendas, keeping minutes and records, and producing reports.


(5) LeadershipThe members of the Advisory Council shall annually select a chairperson of the Advisory Council.


(6) MeetingsThe Advisory Council shall meet as frequently as is determined necessary by the chairperson of the Advisory Council.


(7) Annual reportsThe Advisory Council shall prepare an annual report to the Secretary of Transportation regarding the Advisory Council’s actions and recommendations.



(Pub. L. 109–59, title X, § 10202, Aug. 10, 2005, 119 Stat. 1932; Pub. L. 112–141, div. C, title I, § 31108, July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 756.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users or SAFETEA–LU, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 300d–4, act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XII, § 1201, formerly § 1205, as added Nov. 16, 1973, Pub. L. 93–154, § 2(a), 87 Stat. 597; amended Oct. 21, 1976, Pub. L. 94–573, § 6, 90 Stat. 2713, renumbered § 1201 and amended Aug. 13, 1981, Pub. L. 97–35, title IX, § 902(d)(1), (3), 95 Stat. 560, authorized Secretary to make grants and enter into contracts to support research in emergency medical techniques, methods, devices, and delivery, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 99–117, § 12(e), Oct. 7, 1985, 99 Stat. 495.

Amendments2012—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 112–141 added subsec. (b).

Effective Date of 2012 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 112–141 effective Oct. 1, 2012, see section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under section 101 of Title 23, Highways.


