§ 285i–1. Clinical research on eye care and diabetes(a) Program of grantsThe Director of the Institute, in consultation with the advisory council for the Institute, may award research grants to one or more Diabetes Eye Research Institutions for the support of programs in clinical or health services aimed at—(1) providing comprehensive eye care services for people with diabetes, including a full complement of preventive, diagnostic and treatment procedures;

(2) developing new and improved techniques of patient care through basic and clinical research;

(3) assisting in translation of the latest research advances into clinical practice; and

(4) expanding the knowledge of the eye and diabetes through further research.


(b) Use of fundsAmounts received under a grant awarded under this section shall be used for the following:(1) Establishing the biochemical, cellular, and genetic mechanisms associated with diabetic eye disease and the earlier detection of pending eye abnormalities. The focus of work under this paragraph shall require that ophthalmologists have training in the most up-to-date molecular and cell biological methods.

(2) Establishing new frontiers in technology, such as video-based diagnostic and research resources, to—(A) provide improved patient care;

(B) provide for the evaluation of retinal physiology and its affect on diabetes; and

(C) provide for the assessment of risks for the development and progression of diabetic eye disease and a more immediate evaluation of various therapies aimed at preventing diabetic eye disease.


Such technologies shall be designed to permit evaluations to be performed both in humans and in animal models.

(3) The translation of the results of vision research into the improved care of patients with diabetic eye disease. Such translation shall require the application of institutional resources that encompass patient care, clinical research and basic laboratory research.

(4) The conduct of research concerning the outcomes of eye care treatments and eye health education programs as they relate to patients with diabetic eye disease, including the evaluation of regional approaches to such research.


(c) Authorized expendituresThe purposes for which a grant under subsection (a) of this section may be expended include equipment for the research described in such subsection.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 456, as added Pub. L. 103–43, title XI, § 1101(a), June 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 168.)
