§ 280j–1. Collection and analysis of data for quality and resource use measures(a) In general(1) Establishment of strategic frameworkThe Secretary shall establish and implement an overall strategic framework to carry out the public reporting of performance information, as described in section 280j–2 of this title. Such strategic framework may include methods and related timelines for implementing nationally consistent data collection, data aggregation, and analysis methods.


(2) Collection and aggregation of dataThe Secretary shall collect and aggregate consistent data on quality and resource use measures from information systems used to support health care delivery, and may award grants or contracts for this purpose. The Secretary shall align such collection and aggregation efforts with the requirements and assistance regarding the expansion of health information technology systems, the interoperability of such technology systems, and related standards that are in effect on March 23, 2010.


(3) ScopeThe Secretary shall ensure that the data collection, data aggregation, and analysis systems described in paragraph (1) involve an increasingly broad range of patient populations, providers, and geographic areas over time.



(b) Grants or contracts for data collection(1) In generalThe Secretary may award grants or contracts to eligible entities to support new, or improve existing, efforts to collect and aggregate quality and resource use measures described under subsection (c).


(2) Eligible entitiesTo be eligible for a grant or contract under this subsection, an entity shall—(A) be—(i) a multi-stakeholder entity that coordinates the development of methods and implementation plans for the consistent reporting of summary quality and cost information;

(ii) an entity capable of submitting such summary data for a particular population and providers, such as a disease registry, regional collaboration, health plan collaboration, or other population-wide source; or

(iii) a Federal Indian Health Service program or a health program operated by an Indian tribe (as defined in section 1603 of title 25);


(B) promote the use of the systems that provide data to improve and coordinate patient care;

(C) support the provision of timely, consistent quality and resource use information to health care providers, and other groups and organizations as appropriate, with an opportunity for providers to correct inaccurate measures; and

(D) agree to report, as determined by the Secretary, measures on quality and resource use to the public in accordance with the public reporting process established under section 280j–2 of this title.



(c) Consistent data aggregationThe Secretary may award grants or contracts under this section only to entities that enable summary data that can be integrated and compared across multiple sources. The Secretary shall provide standards for the protection of the security and privacy of patient data.


(d) Matching fundsThe Secretary may not award a grant or contract under this section to an entity unless the entity agrees that it will make available (directly or through contributions from other public or private entities) non-Federal contributions toward the activities to be carried out under the grant or contract in an amount equal to $1 for each $5 of Federal funds provided under the grant or contract. Such non-Federal matching funds may be provided directly or through donations from public or private entities and may be in cash or in-kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services.


(e) Authorization of appropriationsTo carry out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2010 through 2014.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 399II, as added and amended Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3015, title X, § 10305, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 387, 938.)

Amendments2010—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 111–148, § 10305, amended subsec. (a) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The Secretary shall collect and aggregate consistent data on quality and resource use measures from information systems used to support health care delivery to implement the public reporting of performance information, as described in section 280j–2 of this title, and may award grants or contracts for this purpose. The Secretary shall ensure that such collection, aggregation, and analysis systems span an increasingly broad range of patient populations, providers, and geographic areas over time.”


