§ 5780. State requirements
Each State reporting under the provisions of this section and section 5779 of this title shall—(1) ensure that no law enforcement agency within the State establishes or maintains any policy that requires the observance of any waiting period before accepting a missing child or unidentified person report;

(2) ensure that no law enforcement agency within the State establishes or maintains any policy that requires the removal of a missing person entry from its State law enforcement system or the National Crime Information Center computer database based solely on the age of the person; and 11 So in original. The word “and” probably should not appear.

(3) provide that each such report and all necessary and available information, which, with respect to each missing child report, shall include—(A) the name, date of birth, sex, race, height, weight, and eye and hair color of the child;

(B) the date and location of the last known contact with the child; and

(C) the category under which the child is reported missing;


is entered within 2 hours of receipt into the State law enforcement system and the National Crime Information Center computer networks and made available to the Missing Children Information Clearinghouse within the State or other agency designated within the State to receive such reports; and

(4) provide that after receiving reports as provided in paragraph (2), the law enforcement agency that entered the report into the National Crime Information Center shall—(A) no later than 60 days after the original entry of the record into the State law enforcement system and National Crime Information Center computer networks, verify and update such record with any additional information, including, where available, medical and dental records;

(B) institute or assist with appropriate search and investigative procedures; and

(C) maintain close liaison with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children for the exchange of information and technical assistance in the missing children cases.


(Pub. L. 101–647, title XXXVII, § 3702, Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 4967; Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 154(a), July 27, 2006, 120 Stat. 611.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Crime Control Act of 1990, and not as part of the Missing Children’s Assistance Act which comprises this subchapter, nor as part of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 which comprises this chapter.

Amendments2006—Pub. L. 109–248 added par. (2), redesignated former pars. (2) and (3) as (3) and (4), respectively, and substituted “within 2 hours of receipt” for “immediately” in concluding provisions of par. (3).


