§ 285c–5. Research and training centers; development or expansion(a) Diabetes mellitus and related endocrine and metabolic diseases(1) Consistent with applicable recommendations of the National Commission on Diabetes, the Director of the Institute shall provide for the development or substantial expansion of centers for research and training in diabetes mellitus and related endocrine and metabolic diseases. Each center developed or expanded under this subsection shall—(A) utilize the facilities of a single institution, or be formed from a consortium of cooperating institutions, meeting such research and training qualifications as may be prescribed by the Secretary; and

(B) conduct—(i) research in the diagnosis and treatment of diabetes mellitus and related endocrine and metabolic diseases and the complications resulting from such diseases;

(ii) training programs for physicians and allied health personnel in current methods of diagnosis and treatment of such diseases and complications, and in research in diabetes; and

(iii) information programs for physicians and allied health personnel who provide primary care for patients with such diseases or complications.



(2) A center may use funds provided under paragraph (1) to provide stipends for nurses and allied health professionals enrolled in research training programs described in paragraph (1)(B)(ii).


(b) Digestive diseases and related functional, congenital, metabolic disorders, and normal development of digestive tractConsistent with applicable recommendations of the National Digestive Diseases Advisory Board, the Director shall provide for the development or substantial expansion of centers for research in digestive diseases and related functional, congenital, metabolic disorders, and normal development of the digestive tract. Each center developed or expanded under this subsection—(1) shall utilize the facilities of a single institution, or be formed from a consortium of cooperating institutions, meeting such research qualifications as may be prescribed by the Secretary;

(2) shall develop and conduct basic and clinical research into the cause, diagnosis, early detection, prevention, control, and treatment of digestive diseases and nutritional disorders and related functional, congenital, or metabolic complications resulting from such diseases or disorders;

(3) shall encourage research into and programs for—(A) providing information for patients with such diseases and the families of such patients, physicians and others who care for such patients, and the general public;

(B) model programs for cost effective and preventive patient care; and

(C) training physicians and scientists in research on such diseases, disorders, and complications; and


(4) may perform research and participate in epidemiological studies and data collection relevant to digestive diseases and disorders and disseminate such research, studies, and data to the health care profession and to the public.


(c) Kidney and urologic diseasesThe Director shall provide for the development or substantial expansion of centers for research in kidney and urologic diseases. Each center developed or expanded under this subsection—(1) shall utilize the facilities of a single institution, or be formed from a consortium of cooperating institutions, meeting such research qualifications as may be prescribed by the Secretary;

(2) shall develop and conduct basic and clinical research into the cause, diagnosis, early detection, prevention, control, and treatment of kidney and urologic diseases;

(3) shall encourage research into and programs for—(A) providing information for patients with such diseases, disorders, and complications and the families of such patients, physicians and others who care for such patients, and the general public;

(B) model programs for cost effective and preventive patient care; and

(C) training physicians and scientists in research on such diseases; and


(4) may perform research and participate in epidemiological studies and data collection relevant to kidney and urologic diseases in order to disseminate such research, studies, and data to the health care profession and to the public.


(d) Nutritional disorders(1) The Director of the Institute shall, subject to the extent of amounts made available in appropriations Acts, provide for the development or substantial expansion of centers for research and training regarding nutritional disorders, including obesity.

(2) The Director of the Institute shall carry out paragraph (1) in collaboration with the Director of the National Cancer Institute and with the Directors of such other agencies of the National Institutes of Health as the Director of NIH determines to be appropriate.

(3) Each center developed or expanded under paragraph (1) shall—(A) utilize the facilities of a single institution, or be formed from a consortium of cooperating institutions, meeting such research and training qualifications as may be prescribed by the Director;

(B) conduct basic and clinical research into the cause, diagnosis, early detection, prevention, control and treatment of nutritional disorders, including obesity and the impact of nutrition and diet on child development;

(C) conduct training programs for physicians and allied health professionals in current methods of diagnosis and treatment of such diseases and complications, and in research in such disorders; and

(D) conduct information programs for physicians and allied health professionals who provide primary care for patients with such disorders or complications.



(e) Geographic distribution; period of support, additional periodsInsofar as practicable, centers developed or expanded under this section should be geographically dispersed throughout the United States and in environments with proven research capabilities. Support of a center under this section may be for a period of not to exceed five years and such period may be extended by the Director of the Institute for additional periods of not more than five years each if the operations of such center have been reviewed by an appropriate technical and scientific peer review group established by the Director and if such group has recommended to the Director that such period should be extended.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 431, as added Pub. L. 99–158, § 2, Nov. 20, 1985, 99 Stat. 846; amended Pub. L. 103–43, title VI, § 601(b), June 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 161.)

Amendments1993—Subsecs. (d), (e). Pub. L. 103–43 added subsec. (d) and redesignated former subsec. (d) as (e).


