§ 239l. Establishment(a) United States Public Health Services Track(1) In generalThere is hereby authorized to be established a United States Public Health Sciences Track (referred to in this part as the “Track”), at sites to be selected by the Secretary, with authority to grant appropriate advanced degrees in a manner that uniquely emphasizes team-based service, public health, epidemiology, and emergency preparedness and response. It shall be so organized as to graduate not less than—(A) 150 medical students annually, 10 of whom shall be awarded studentships to the Uniformed Services University of Health Sciences;

(B) 100 dental students annually;

(C) 250 nursing students annually;

(D) 100 public health students annually;

(E) 100 behavioral and mental health professional students annually;

(F) 100 physician assistant or nurse practitioner students annually; and

(G) 50 pharmacy students annually.


(2) LocationsThe Track shall be located at existing and accredited, affiliated health professions education training programs at academic health centers located in regions of the United States determined appropriate by the Surgeon General, in consultation with the National Health Care Workforce Commission established in section 294q of this title.



(b) Number of graduatesExcept as provided in subsection (a), the number of persons to be graduated from the Track shall be prescribed by the Secretary. In so prescribing the number of persons to be graduated from the Track, the Secretary shall institute actions necessary to ensure the maximum number of first-year enrollments in the Track consistent with the academic capacity of the affiliated sites and the needs of the United States for medical, dental, and nursing personnel.


(c) DevelopmentThe development of the Track may be by such phases as the Secretary may prescribe subject to the requirements of subsection (a).


(d) Integrated longitudinal planThe Surgeon General shall develop an integrated longitudinal plan for health professions continuing education throughout the continuum of health-related education, training, and practice. Training under such plan shall emphasize patient-centered, interdisciplinary, and care coordination skills. Experience with deployment of emergency response teams shall be included during the clinical experiences.


(e) Faculty developmentThe Surgeon General shall develop faculty development programs and curricula in decentralized venues of health care, to balance urban, tertiary, and inpatient venues.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title II, § 271, as added Pub. L. 111–148, title V, § 5315, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 637.)
