§ 300cc–40c. Comprehensive plan for expenditure of appropriations(a) In generalSubject to the provisions of this section and other applicable law, the Director of the Office, in carrying out section 300cc–40 of this title, shall—(1) establish a comprehensive plan for the conduct and support of all AIDS activities of the agencies of the National Institutes of Health (which plan shall be first established under this paragraph not later than 12 months after June 10, 1993);

(2) ensure that the Plan establishes priorities among the AIDS activities that such agencies are authorized to carry out;

(3) ensure that the Plan establishes objectives regarding such activities, describes the means for achieving the objectives, and designates the date by which the objectives are expected to be achieved;

(4) ensure that all amounts appropriated for such activities are expended in accordance with the Plan;

(5) review the Plan not less than annually, and revise the Plan as appropriate; and

(6) ensure that the Plan serves as a broad, binding statement of policies regarding AIDS activities of the agencies, but does not remove the responsibility of the heads of the agencies for the approval of specific programs or projects, or for other details of the daily administration of such activities, in accordance with the Plan.


(b) Certain components of PlanWith respect to AIDS activities of the agencies of the National Institutes of Health, the Director of the Office shall ensure that the Plan—(1) provides for basic research;

(2) provides for applied research;

(3) provides for research that is conducted by the agencies;

(4) provides for research that is supported by the agencies;

(5) provides for proposals developed pursuant to solicitations by the agencies and for proposals developed independently of such solicitations; and

(6) provides for behavioral research and social sciences research.


(c) Budget estimates(1) Full-funding budget(A) With respect to a fiscal year, the Director of the Office shall prepare and submit directly to the President, for review and transmittal to the Congress, a budget estimate for carrying out the Plan for the fiscal year, after reasonable opportunity for comment (but without change) by the Secretary, the Director of the National Institutes of Health, and the advisory council established under section 300cc–40b of this title. The budget estimate shall include an estimate of the number and type of personnel needs for the Office.

(B) The budget estimate submitted under subparagraph (A) shall estimate the amounts necessary for the agencies of the National Institutes of Health to carry out all AIDS activities determined by the Director of the Office to be appropriate, without regard to the probability that such amounts will be appropriated.


(2) Alternative budgets(A) With respect to a fiscal year, the Director of the Office shall prepare and submit to the Secretary and the Director of the National Institutes of Health the budget estimates described in subparagraph (B) for carrying out the Plan for the fiscal year. The Secretary and such Director shall consider each of such estimates in making recommendations to the President regarding a budget for the Plan for such year.

(B) With respect to the fiscal year involved, the budget estimates referred to in subparagraph (A) for the Plan are as follows:(i) The budget estimate submitted under paragraph (1).

(ii) A budget estimate developed on the assumption that the amounts appropriated will be sufficient only for—(I) continuing the conduct by the agencies of the National Institutes of Health of existing AIDS activities (if approved for continuation), and continuing the support of such activities by the agencies in the case of projects or programs for which the agencies have made a commitment of continued support; and

(II) carrying out, of activities that are in addition to activities specified in subclause (I), only such activities for which the Director determines there is the most substantial need.


(iii) Such other budget estimates as the Director of the Office determines to be appropriate.




(d) Funding(1) Authorization of appropriationsFor the purpose of carrying out AIDS activities under the Plan, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.


(2) Receipt of fundsFor the first fiscal year beginning after the date on which the Plan first established under subsection (a)(1) of this section has been in effect for 12 months, and for each subsequent fiscal year, the Director of the Office shall receive directly from the President and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget all funds available for AIDS activities of the National Institutes of Health.


(3) Allocations for agencies(A) Each fiscal year the Director of the Office shall, from the amounts received under paragraph (2) for the fiscal year, allocate to the agencies of the National Institutes of Health (in accordance with the Plan) all amounts available for such year for carrying out the AIDS activities specified in subsection (c)(2)(B)(ii)(I) of this section for such year. Such allocation shall, to the extent practicable, be made not later than 15 days after the date on which the Director receives amounts under paragraph (2).

(B) Each fiscal year the Director of the Office shall, from the amounts received under paragraph (2) for the fiscal year, allocate to the agencies of the National Institutes of Health (in accordance with the Plan) all amounts available for such year for carrying out AIDS activities that are not referred to in subparagraph (A). Such allocation shall, to the extent practicable, be made not later than 30 days after the date on which the Director receives amounts under paragraph (2).



(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XXIII, § 2353, as added Pub. L. 103–43, title XVIII, § 1801(a)(3), June 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 194.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 300cc–40b of this title.


