“SEC. 805. ADVISORY GROUP.“(a) Establishment.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Apr. 5, 2000], the Administrator [of the Federal Aviation Administration] and the Director of the National Park Service shall jointly establish an advisory group to provide continuing advice and counsel with respect to commercial air tour operations over and near national parks.

“(b) Membership.—“(1) In general.—The advisory group shall be composed of—“(A) a balanced group of—“(i) representatives of general aviation;

“(ii) representatives of commercial air tour operators;

“(iii) representatives of environmental concerns; and

“(iv) representatives of Indian tribes;


“(B) a representative of the Federal Aviation Administration; and

“(C) a representative of the National Park Service.


“(2) Ex officio members.—The Administrator (or the designee of the Administrator) and the Director (or the designee of the Director) shall serve as ex officio members.

“(3) Chairperson.—The representative of the Federal Aviation Administration and the representative of the National Park Service shall serve alternating 1-year terms as chairman of the advisory group, with the representative of the Federal Aviation Administration serving initially until the end of the calendar year following the year in which the advisory group is first appointed.


“(c) Duties.—The advisory group shall provide advice, information, and recommendations to the Administrator and the Director—“(1) on the implementation of this title and the amendments made by this title;

“(2) on commonly accepted quiet aircraft technology for use in commercial air tour operations over a national park or tribal lands, which will receive preferential treatment in a given air tour management plan;

“(3) on other measures that might be taken to accommodate the interests of visitors to national parks; and

“(4) at the request of the Administrator and the Director, safety, environmental, and other issues related to commercial air tour operations over a national park or tribal lands.


“(d) Compensation; Support; FACA.—“(1) Compensation and travel.—Members of the advisory group who are not officers or employees of the United States, while attending conferences or meetings of the group or otherwise engaged in its business, or while serving away from their homes or regular places of business, may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, for persons in the Government service employed intermittently.

“(2) Administrative support.—The Federal Aviation Administration and the National Park Service shall jointly furnish to the advisory group clerical and other assistance.

“(3) Nonapplication of faca.—Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) does not apply to the advisory group.


