§ 6422. Expedited procedure for Congressional consideration of certain authorities(a) Contingency plan identification number; transmittal of plan to CongressAny contingency plan transmitted to the Congress pursuant to section 6261(a)(1) 11 See References in Text note below. of this title shall bear an identification number and shall be transmitted to both Houses of Congress on the same day and to each House while it is in session.


(b) Necessity of Congressional resolution within certain period for plan to be considered approved(1) No such energy conservation contingency plan may be considered approved for purposes of section 6261(b) 1 of this title unless between the date of transmittal and the end of the first period of 60 calendar days of continuous session of Congress after the date on which such action is transmitted to such House, each House of Congress passes a resolution described in subsection (d)(2)(A) of this section.

(2)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), any such rationing contingency plan shall be considered approved for purposes of section 6261(d) 1 of this title only if such plan is not disapproved by a resolution described in subsection (d)(2)(B)(i) of this section which passes each House of the Congress during the 30-calendar-day period of continuous session after the plan is transmitted to such Houses and which thereafter becomes law.

(B) A rationing contingency plan may be considered approved prior to the expiration of the 30-calendar-day period after such plan is transmitted if a resolution described in subsection (d)(2)(B)(ii) of this section is passed by each House of the Congress and thereafter becomes law.



(c) Computation of periodFor the purpose of subsection (b) of this section—(1) continuity of session is broken only by an adjournment of Congress sine die; and

(2) the days on which either House is not in session because of an adjournment of more than 3 days to a day certain are excluded in the computation of the calendar-day period involved.


(d) Resolution with respect to contingency plan(1) This subsection is enacted by Congress—(A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, and as such it is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in that House in the case of resolutions described by paragraph (2) of this subsection; and it supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent therewith; and

(B) with full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of the House.


(2)(A) For purposes of applying this section with respect to any energy conservation contingency plan, the term “resolution” means only a resolution of either House of Congress the matter after the resolving clauses of which is as follows: “That the ___ approves the energy conservation contingency plan numbered ___ submitted to the Congress on ______, 19__.”, the first blank space therein being filled with the name of the resolving House and the other blank spaces being appropriately filled; but does not include a resolution which specifies more than one energy conservation contingency plan.

(B) For purposes of applying this subsection with respect to any rationing contingency plan (other than pursuant to section 6261(d)(2)(B) 1 of this title), the term “resolution” means only a joint resolution described in clause (i) or (ii) of this subparagraph with respect to such plan.(i) A joint resolution of either House of the Congress (I) which is entitled: “Joint resolution relating to a rationing contingency plan.”, (II) which does not contain a preamble, and (III) the matter after the resolving clause of which is: “That the Congress of the United States disapproves the rationing contingency plan transmitted to the Congress on ______, 19__.”, the blank spaces therein appropriately filled.

(ii) A joint resolution of either House of the Congress (I) which is entitled: “Joint resolution relating to a rationing contingency plan.”, (II) which does not contain a preamble, and (III) the matter after the resolving clause of which is: “That the Congress of the United States does not object to the rationing contingency plan transmitted to the Congress on ______, 19__.”, the blank spaces therein appropriately filled.



(3) A resolution once introduced with respect to a contingency plan shall immediately be referred to a committee (and all resolutions with respect to the same contingency plan shall be referred to the same committee) by the President of the Senate or the Speaker of the House of Representatives, as the case may be.

(4)(A) If the committee to which a resolution with respect to a contingency plan has been referred has not reported it at the end of 20 calendar days after its referral in the case of any energy conservation contingency plan or at the end of 10 calendar days after its referral in the case of any rationing contingency plan, it shall be in order to move either to discharge the committee from further consideration of such resolution or to discharge the committee from further consideration of any other resolution with respect to such contingency plan which has been referred to the committee.

(B) A motion to discharge may be made only by an individual favoring the resolution, shall be highly privileged (except that it may not be made after the committee has reported a resolution with respect to the same contingency plan), and debate thereon shall be limited to not more than 1 hour, to be divided equally between those favoring and those opposing the resolution. Except to the extent provided in paragraph (7)(A), an amendment to the motion shall not be in order, and it shall not be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the motion was agreed to or disagreed to.

(C) If the motion to discharge is agreed to or disagreed to, the motion may not be renewed, nor may another motion to discharge the committee be made with respect to any other resolution with respect to the same contingency plan.


(5)(A) When the committee has reported, or has been discharged from further consideration of, a resolution, it shall be at any time thereafter in order (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) to move to proceed to the consideration of the resolution. The motion shall be highly privileged and shall not be debatable. An amendment to the motion shall not be in order, and it shall not be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the motion was agreed to or disagreed to.

(B) Debate on the resolution referred to in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall be limited to not more than 10 hours, which shall be divided equally between those favoring and those opposing such resolution. A motion further to limit debate shall not be debatable. Except to the extent provided in paragraph (7)(B), an amendment to, or motion to recommit the resolution shall not be in order, and it shall not be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which such resolution was agreed to or disagreed to.


(6)(A) Motions to postpone, made with respect to the discharge from committee, or the consideration of a resolution and motions to proceed to the consideration of other business, shall be decided without debate.

(B) Appeals from the decision of the Chair relating to the application of the rules of the Senate or the House of Representatives, as the case may be, to the procedures relating to a resolution shall be decided without debate.


(7) With respect to any rationing contingency plan—(A) In the consideration of any motion to discharge any committee from further consideration of any resolution on any such plan, it shall be in order after debate allowed for under paragraph (4)(B) to offer an amendment in the nature of a substitute for such motion—(i) consisting of a motion to discharge such committee from further consideration of a resolution described in paragraph (2)(B)(i) with respect to any rationing contingency plan, if the discharge motion sought to be amended relates to a resolution described in paragraph (2)(B)(ii) with respect to the same such plan, or

(ii) consisting of a motion to discharge such committee from further consideration of a resolution described in paragraph (2)(B)(ii) with respect to any rationing contingency plan, if the discharge motion sought to be amended relates to a resolution described in paragraph (2)(B)(i) with respect to the same such plan.


An amendment described in this subparagraph shall not be amendable. Debate on such an amendment shall be limited to not more than 1 hour, which shall be divided equally between those favoring and those opposing the amendment.

(B) In the consideration of any resolution on any such plan which has been reported by a committee, it shall be in order at any time during the debate allowed for under paragraph (5)(B) to offer an amendment in the nature of a substitute for such resolution—(i) consisting of the text of a resolution described in paragraph (2)(B)(i) with respect to any rationing contingency plan, if the resolution sought to be amended is a resolution described in paragraph (2)(B)(ii) with respect to the same such plan, or

(ii) consisting of the text of a resolution described in paragraph (2)(B)(ii) with respect to any rationing contingency plan, if the resolution sought to be amended is a resolution described in paragraph (2)(B)(i) with respect to the same such plan.


An amendment described in this subparagraph shall not be amendable.

(C) If one House receives from the other House a resolution with respect to a rationing contingency plan, then the following procedure applies:(i) the resolution of the other House with respect to such plan shall not be referred to a committee;

(ii) in the case of a resolution of the first House with respect to such plan—(I) the procedure with respect to that or other resolutions of such House with respect to such plan shall be the same as if no resolution from the other House with respect to such plan had been received; but

(II) on any vote on final passage of a resolution of the first House with respect to such plan a resolution from the other House with respect to such plan which has the same effect shall be automatically substituted for the resolution of the first House.



(D) Notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions of this subsection, if a House has approved a resolution with respect to a rationing contingency plan, then it shall not be in order to consider in that House any other resolution under this section with respect to the approval of such plan.



(Pub. L. 94–163, title V, § 552, Dec. 22, 1975, 89 Stat. 967; Pub. L. 96–102, title I, §§ 103(b)(2), 105(a)(4), (b)(6), Nov. 5, 1979, 93 Stat. 753, 756; Pub. L. 105–388, § 5(a)(16), Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3479.)


References in TextSection 6261 of this title, referred to in subsecs. (a), (b)(1), (2)(A), and (d)(2)(B), was repealed by Pub. L. 106–469, title I, § 104(1), Nov. 9, 2000, 114 Stat. 2033.

Amendments1998—Subsec. (d)(5)(A). Pub. L. 105–388 substituted “motion” for “notion” after “amendment to the”.
1979—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 96–102, §§ 103(b)(2)(A), 105(b)(6), designated existing provisions as par. (1) and substituted “No such energy conservation contingency plan” for “No such contingency plan”, “section 6261(b)” for “section 6261(a)(2)”, and “subsection (d)(2)(A)” for “subsection (d)(2)”, and added par. (2).
Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 96–102, § 103(b)(2)(B), substituted “calendar-day period involved” for “60-calendar-day period”.
Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 96–102, §§ 103(b)(2)(C), 105(a)(4), designated existing provisions as subpar. (A), substituted “For purposes of applying this section with respect to any energy conservation contingency plan” for “For purposes of this subsection” and “energy conservation contingency plan” for “contingency plan” in two places, and added subpar. (B).
Subsec. (d)(4)(A). Pub. L. 96–102, § 103(b)(2)(D), inserted “in the case of any energy conservation contingency plan or at the end of 10 calendar days after its referral in the case of any rationing contingency plan” after “after its referral”.
Subsec. (d)(4)(B). Pub. L. 96–102, § 103(b)(2)(E), substituted “Except to the extent provided in paragraph (7)(A), an amendment” for “An amendment”.
Subsec. (d)(5)(B). Pub. L. 96–102, § 103(b)(2)(F), substituted “Except to the extent provided in paragraph (7)(B), an amendment” for “An amendment”.
Subsec. (d)(7). Pub. L. 96–102, § 103(b)(2)(G), added par. (7).

Effective Date of 1979 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 96–102 effective Nov. 5, 1979, see section 302 of Pub. L. 96–102, set out as an Effective Date note under section 8501 of this title.


