§ 9522. Report on shelter and basic living needs of chronically mentally ill individuals(a) Submission to Congressional committees by Secretaries of Health and Human Services and Housing and Urban DevelopmentThe Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall jointly submit a report to the Committees on Labor and Human Resources and Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, and the Committees on Energy and Commerce and Banking, Finance, and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives, relating to Federal efforts to respond to the shelter and basic living needs of chronically mentally ill individuals.


(b) ContentsThe report required by subsection (a) of this section shall include—(1) an analysis of the extent to which chronically mentally ill individuals remain inappropriately housed in institutional facilities or have otherwise inadequate or inappropriate housing arrangements;

(2) an analysis of available permanent noninstitutional housing arrangements for the chronically mentally ill;

(3) an evaluation of ongoing permanent and demonstration programs, funded in whole or in part by Federal funds, which are designed to provide noninstitutional shelter and basic living services for the chronically mentally ill, including—(A) a description of each program;

(B) the total number of individuals estimated to be eligible to participate in each program, the number of individuals served by each program, and an estimate of the total population each program expects to serve; and

(C) an assessment of the effectiveness of each program in the provision of shelter and basic living services;


(4) recommendations of measures to encourage States to coordinate and link the provisions in State health plans which relate to mental health and, in particular, the shelter and basic living needs of chronically mentally ill individuals, with local and State housing plans;

(5) recommendations for Federal legislation relating to the provision of permanent residential noninstitutional housing arrangements and basic living services for chronically mentally ill individuals, including an estimate of the cost of such recommendations; and

(6) any other recommendations for Federal initiatives which, in the judgment of the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, will lead to improved shelter and basic living services for chronically mentally ill individuals.


(c) Submission dateThe report required by subsection (a) of this section shall be submitted to the committees referred to in subsection (a) of this section no later than January 1, 1981.


(Pub. L. 96–398, title VIII, § 802, Oct. 7, 1980, 94 Stat. 1606; H. Res. 549, Mar. 25, 1980.)


Change of Name
Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.
Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives by section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2. Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives abolished and replaced by Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred from Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.


