§ 7279a. Future-years energy program annual submission and budgeting(a) Submission to CongressThe Secretary of Energy shall submit to Congress each year, at the time that the President’s budget is submitted to Congress that year under section 1105(a) of title 31, a future-years energy program reflecting the estimated expenditures and proposed appropriations included in that budget. Any such future-years energy program shall cover the fiscal year with respect to which the budget is submitted and at least the four succeeding fiscal years. A future-years energy program shall be included in the fiscal year 2014 budget submission to Congress and every fiscal year thereafter.


(b) ElementsEach future-years energy program shall contain the following:(1) The estimated expenditures and proposed appropriations necessary to support programs, projects, and activities of the Secretary of Energy during the 5-fiscal year period covered by the program, expressed in a level of detail comparable to that contained in the budget submitted by the President to Congress under section 1105 of title 31.

(2) The estimated expenditures and proposed appropriations shaped by high-level, prioritized program and budgetary guidance that is consistent with the administration’s policies and out year budget projections and reviewed by the Department of Energy’s (DOE) senior leadership to ensure that the future-years energy program is consistent and congruent with previously established program and budgetary guidance.

(3) A description of the anticipated workload requirements for each DOE national laboratory during the 5-fiscal year period.


(c) Consistency in budgeting(1) The Secretary of Energy shall ensure that amounts described in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) for any fiscal year are consistent with amounts described in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) for that fiscal year.

(2) Amounts referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:(A) The amounts specified in program and budget information submitted to Congress by the Secretary of Energy in support of expenditure estimates and proposed appropriations in the budget submitted to Congress by the President under section 1105(a) of title 31 for any fiscal year, as shown in the future-years energy program submitted pursuant to subsection (a).

(B) The total amounts of estimated expenditures and proposed appropriations necessary to support the programs, projects, and activities of the administration included pursuant to paragraph (5) of section 1105(a) of such title in the budget submitted to Congress under that section for any fiscal year.



(Pub. L. 112–74, div. B, title III, § 304, Dec. 23, 2011, 125 Stat. 876.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2012, and also as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012, and not as part of the Department of Energy Organization Act which comprises this chapter.


