§ 6603. Sense of Congress on innovation acceleration research(a) Sense of Congress on support and promotion of innovation in the United StatesIt is the sense of Congress that each Federal research agency should strive to support and promote innovation in the United States through high-risk, high-reward basic research projects that—(1) meet fundamental technological or scientific challenges;

(2) involve multidisciplinary work; and

(3) involve a high degree of novelty.


(b) Sense of Congress on setting annual funding goals for basic researchIt is the sense of Congress that each Executive agency that funds research in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics should set a goal of allocating an appropriate percentage of the annual basic research budget of such agency to funding high-risk, high-reward basic research projects described in subsection (a).


(c) ReportEach Executive agency described in subsection (b) shall submit to Congress each year, together with documents submitted to Congress in support of the budget of the President for the fiscal year beginning in such year (as submitted pursuant to section 1105 of title 31), a report describing whether a funding goal as described in subsection (b) has been established, and if such a goal has been established, the following:(1) A description of such funding goal.

(2) Whether such funding goal is being met by the agency.

(3) A description of activities supported by amounts allocated in accordance with such funding goal.


(d) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Basic researchThe term “basic research” has the meaning given such term in the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A–11.


(2) Executive agencyThe term “Executive agency” has the meaning given such term in section 105 of title 5.



(Pub. L. 110–69, title I, § 1008, Aug. 9, 2007, 121 Stat. 581.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the America COMPETES Act, also known as the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Act, and not as part of the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 which comprises this chapter.


