§ 6371. Definitions
For the purposes of this part—(1) The term “building” means any structure the construction of which was completed on or before May 1, 1989, which includes a heating or cooling system, or both.

(2) The term “energy conservation measure” means an installation or modification of an installation in a building which is primarily intended to maintain or reduce energy consumption and reduce energy costs or allow the use of an alternative energy source, including, but not limited to—(A) insulation of the building structure and systems within the building;

(B) storm windows and doors, multiglazed windows and doors, heat absorbing or heat reflective glazed and coated windows and door systems, additional glazing, reductions in glass area, and other window and door system modifications;

(C) automatic energy control systems and load management systems;

(D) equipment required to operate variable steam, hydraulic, and ventilating systems adjusted by automatic energy control systems;

(E) solar space heating or cooling systems, solar electric generating systems, or any combination thereof;

(F) solar water heating systems;

(G) furnace or utility plant and distribution system modifications including—(i) replacement burners, furnaces, boilers, or any combination thereof, which substantially increases the energy efficiency of the heating system,

(ii) devices for modifying flue openings which will increase the energy efficiency of the heating system,

(iii) electrical or mechanical furnace ignition systems which replace standing gas pilot lights, and

(iv) utility plant system conversion measures including conversion of existing oil- and gas-fired boiler installations to alternative energy sources, including coal;


(H) caulking and weatherstripping;

(I) replacement or modification of lighting fixtures which replacement or modification increases the energy efficiency of the lighting system without increasing the overall illumination of a facility (unless such increase in illumination is necessary to conform to any applicable State or local building code or, if no such code applies, the increase is considered appropriate by the Secretary);

(J) energy recovery systems;

(K) cogeneration systems which produce steam or forms of energy such as heat, as well as electricity for use primarily within a building or a complex of buildings owned by a school or hospital and which meet such fuel efficiency requirements as the Secretary may by rule prescribe;

(L) such other measures as the Secretary identifies by rule for purposes of this part; and

(M) such other measures as a grant applicant shows will save a substantial amount of energy and as are identified in an energy audit prescribed pursuant to section 6325(e)(2) of this title.


(3) The term “hospital” means a public or nonprofit institution which is—(A) a general hospital, tuberculosis hospital, or any other type of hospital, other than a hospital furnishing primarily domiciliary care; and

(B) duly authorized to provide hospital services under the laws of the State in which it is situated.


(4) The term “hospital facilities” means buildings housing a hospital and related facilities, including laboratories, outpatient departments, nurses’ home and training facilities and central service facilities operated in connection with a hospital, and also includes buildings housing education or training facilities for health professions personnel operated as an integral part of a hospital.

(5) The term “public or nonprofit institution” means an institution owned and operated by—(A) a State, a political subdivision of a State or an agency or instrumentality of either, or

(B) an organization exempt from income tax under section 501(c)(3) of title 26.


(6) The term “school” means a public or nonprofit institution which—(A) provides, and is legally authorized to provide, elementary education or secondary education, or both, on a day or residential basis;

(B)(i) provides, and is legally authorized to provide a program of education beyond secondary education, on a day or residential basis;

(ii) admits as students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such certificate;

(iii) is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association; and

(iv) provides an educational program for which it awards a bachelor’s degree or higher degree or provides not less than a two-year program which is acceptable for full credit toward such a degree at any institution which meets the requirements of clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) and which provides such a program;


(C) provides not less than a one-year program of training to prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation and which meets the provisions of clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subparagraph (B); or

(D) is a local educational agency.


(7) The term “local education agency” means a public board of education or other public authority or a nonprofit institution legally constituted within, or otherwise recognized by, a State for either administrative control or direction of, or to perform administrative services for, a group of schools within a State.

(8) The term “school facilities” means buildings housing classrooms, laboratories, dormitories, administrative facilities, athletic facilities, or related facilities operated in connection with a school.

(9) The term “State” means, in addition to the several States of the Union, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands.

(10) The term “State energy agency” means the State agency responsible for developing State energy conservation plans pursuant to section 6322 of this title, or, if no such agency exists, a State agency designated by the Governor of such State to prepare and submit a State plan under section 6371c of this title.

(11) The term “State school facilities agency” means an existing agency which is broadly representative of public institutions of higher education, nonprofit institutions of higher education, public elementary and secondary schools, nonprofit elementary and secondary schools, public vocational education institutions, nonprofit vocational education institutions, and the interests of handicapped persons, in a State or, if no such agency exists, an agency which is designated by the Governor of such State which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph.

(12) The term “State hospital facilities agency” means an existing agency which is broadly representative of the public hospitals and the nonprofit hospitals, or, if no such agency exists, an agency designated by the Governor of such State which conforms to the requirements of this paragraph.

(13) The term “energy audit” means a determination of the energy consumption characteristics of a building which—(A) identifies the type, size, and rate of energy consumption of such building and the major energy using systems of such building;

(B) determines appropriate energy conservation maintenance and operating procedures; and

(C) indicates the need, if any, for the acquisition and installation of energy conservation measures.


(14) The term “preliminary energy audit” means a determination of the energy consumption characteristics of a building, including the size, type, rate of energy consumption and major energy-using systems of such building.

(15) The term “energy conservation project” means—(A) an undertaking to acquire and to install one or more energy conservation measures in school or hospital facilities and

(B) technical assistance in connection with any such undertaking and technical assistance as described in paragraph (17)(A).


(16) The term “energy conservation project costs” includes only costs incurred in the design, acquisition, construction, and installation of energy conservation measures and technical assistance costs.

(17) The term “technical assistance” means assistance, under rules promulgated by the Secretary, to States, schools, and hospitals—(A) to conduct specialized studies identifying and specifying energy savings or energy cost savings that are likely to be realized as a result of (i) modification of maintenance and operating procedures in a building, or (ii) the acquisition and installation of one or more specified energy conservation measures in such building, or (iii) both, and

(B) the planning or administration of specific remodeling, renovation, repair, replacement, or insulation projects related to the installation of energy conservation measures in such building.


(18) The term “technical assistance costs” means costs incurred for the use of existing personnel or the temporary employment of other qualified personnel (or both such types of personnel) necessary for providing technical assistance.

(19) The term “energy conservation maintenance and operating procedure” means modification or modifications in the maintenance and operations of a building, and any installations therein, which are designed to reduce energy consumption in such building and which require no significant expenditure of funds.

(20) The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Energy or his designee.

(21) The term “Governor” means the chief executive officer of a State or his designee.

(Pub. L. 94–163, title III, § 391, as added Pub. L. 95–619, title III, § 302(a), Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3239; amended Pub. L. 98–454, title VI, § 601(e), Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1736; Pub. L. 99–514, § 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095; Pub. L. 101–440, § 6(b), Oct. 18, 1990, 104 Stat. 1011; Pub. L. 105–388, § 5(a)(9), Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3478.)

Amendments1998—Par. (2)(B). Pub. L. 105–388 substituted a semicolon for period at end.
1990—Par. (1). Pub. L. 101–440, § 6(b)(1), substituted “May 1, 1989” for “April 20, 1977”.
Par. (2). Pub. L. 101–440, § 6(b)(2), (3), in introductory provision substituted “maintain or reduce energy consumption and reduce energy costs” for “reduce energy consumption” and in subpar. (C) inserted “and load management systems” after “systems”.
Par. (8). Pub. L. 101–440, § 6(b)(4), inserted “administrative facilities,” after “dormitories,”.
Par. (17)(A). Pub. L. 101–440, § 6(b)(5), substituted “or energy cost savings” for “and related cost savings”.
1986—Par. (5)(B). Pub. L. 99–514 substituted “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” for “Internal Revenue Code of 1954”, which for purposes of codification was translated as “title 26” thus requiring no change in text.
1984—Par. (9). Pub. L. 98–454 which directed the amendment of subsec. (a) by inserting reference to the Northern Mariana Islands was executed to par. (9) of this section to reflect the probable intent of Congress, because this section does not contain a subsec. (a).

SeparabilityPub. L. 95–619, title III, § 302(c), Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3248, provided that: “If any provision of this title [enacting sections 6371 to 6371j and section 6372 to 6372i of this title, amending sections 300k–2 and 300n–1 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section and section 6372 of this title] or the application thereof to any person or circumstances be held invalid, the provisions of other sections of this title and their application to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.”


Congressional Statement of Findings and PurposesPub. L. 95–619, title III, § 301, Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3238, provided:
“(a) Findings.—The Congress finds that—“(1) the Nation’s nonrenewable energy resources are being rapidly depleted;

“(2) schools and hospitals are major consumers of energy, and have been especially burdened by rising energy prices and fuel shortages;

“(3) substantial energy conservation can be achieved in schools and hospitals through the implementation of energy conservation maintenance and operating procedures and the installation of energy conservation measures; and

“(4) public and nonprofit schools and hospitals in many instances need financial assistance in order to make the necessary improvements to achieve energy conservation.


“(b) Purpose.—It is the purpose of this part [part 1 (§§ 301–303) of title III of Pub. L. 95–619, enacting sections 6371 to 6371i of this title, amending sections 300k–2 and 300n–1 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section] to authorize grants to States and to public and nonprofit schools and hospitals to assist them in identifying and implementing energy conservation maintenance and operating procedures and in evaluating, acquiring, and installing energy conservation measures to reduce the energy use and anticipated energy costs of schools and hospitals.”





