§ 9002. Comprehensive program management plan(a) Preparation of plan(1) The Secretary is authorized and directed to prepare a comprehensive program management plan for the conduct under this chapter of research, development, and demonstration activities consistent with the provisions of sections 9003, 9004, and 9005 of this title.

(2) In the preparation of such plan, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Administrator of the Maritime Administration, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the heads of such other Federal agencies and such public and private organizations as he deems appropriate.


(b) Transmittal of plan to CongressThe Secretary shall transmit the comprehensive program management plan to the Committee on Science and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate within nine months after July 17, 1980.


(c) Requisite provisions of planThe detailed description of the comprehensive plan under this section shall include, but need not be limited to—(1) the anticipated research, development, and demonstration objectives to be achieved by the program;

(2) the program strategies and technology application and market development plans, including detailed milestone goals to be achieved during the next fiscal year for all major activities and projects;

(3) a five-year implementation schedule for program elements with associated budget and program management resources requirements;

(4) a detailed description of the functional organization of the program management including identification of permanent test facilities and of a lead center responsible for technology support and project management;

(5) the estimated relative financial contributions of the Federal Government and non-Federal participants in the pilot and demonstration projects;

(6) supporting research needed to solve problems which may inhibit or limit development of ocean thermal energy conversion systems; and

(7) an analysis of the environmental, economic, and societal impacts of ocean thermal energy conversion facilities.


(Pub. L. 96–310, § 3, July 17, 1980, 94 Stat. 942; Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1051(c), Dec. 21, 1995, 109 Stat. 716.)

Amendments1995—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–66 struck out subsec. (d) which read as follows:
“(d)(1) Concurrently with the submission of the President’s annual budget for each subsequent year, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress a detailed description of modifications which may be necessary to revise appropriately the comprehensive plan as then in effect, setting forth any changes in circumstances which may have occurred since the plan or the last previous modification thereof was transmitted in accordance with this section.
“(2) Such description shall also include a detailed justification of any such changes, a detailed description of the progress made toward achieving the goals of this chapter, a statement on the status of interagency cooperation in meeting such goals, any comments on and recommendations for improvements in the comprehensive program management plan made by the Technical Panel established under section 9007 of this title, and any legislative or other recommendations which the Secretary may have to help attain such goals.”


Change of Name
Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.


