“Sec. 4. (a) The Secretary is authorized to convey lands under application for selection by Village Corporations within Cook Inlet Region to the Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated, for reconveyance by the Region to such Village Corporations. Such lands shall be conveyed as partial satisfaction of the statutory entitlement of such Village Corporations from lands withdrawn pursuant to section 11(a)(3) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act [section 1610(a)(3) of this title] (hereinafter, The Settlement Act’) [this chapter], and with the consent of the Region affected, as provided in section 12 of the Act of January 2, 1976 (89 Stat. 1145, 1150) [set out as a note below], from lands outside the boundaries of Cook Inlet Region. This authority shall not be employed to increase or decrease the statutory entitlement of any Village Corporation or Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated. For the purposes of counting acres received in computing statutory entitlement, the Secretary shall count the number of acres or acre selections surrendered by Village Corporations in any exchange for any other lands or selections.

“(b) The Secretary shall not be required to survey any land conveyed pursuant to subsection 4(a) until the Village Corporation entitlement for all eligible Village Corporations has been conveyed. With respect to the conveyances made by the Secretary in the manner authorized by subsection 4(a), the Secretary shall survey the exterior boundaries of each entire area conveyed to Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated, pursuant to subsection 4(a) and monument to boundary lines at angle points and intervals of approximately two miles on straight lines. The Secretary shall not be required to provide ground survey or monumentation along meanderable water boundaries. Each township corner located within the exterior boundary of land conveyed shall be located and monumented. Any areas within such tracts that are to be reconveyed pursuant to section 14(C)(1) and (2) of the Settlement Act [section 1613(c)(1) and (2) of this title] shall also be surveyed pursuant to 43 C.F.R. 2650.

“(c) Conveyances made under the authority of subsection (a) of this section shall be considered conveyances under the Settlement Act [this chapter] and subject to the provisions of that Act, except as provided by this Act [amending section 1615(a) and (d) of this title and amending provisions set out as a note below].

