§ 41311. Gambling restrictions(a) In General.—An air carrier or foreign air carrier may not install, transport, or operate, or permit the use of, any gambling device on board an aircraft in foreign air transportation.

(b) Definition.—In this section, the term “gambling device” means any machine or mechanical device (including gambling applications on electronic interactive video systems installed on board aircraft for passenger use)—(1) which when operated may deliver, as the result of the application of an element of chance, any money or property; or

(2) by the operation of which a person may become entitled to receive, as the result of the application of an element of chance, any money or property.


(Added Pub. L. 103–305, title II, § 205(a)(1), Aug. 23, 1994, 108 Stat. 1583.)

Study of Gambling on Commercial AircraftPub. L. 103–305, title II, § 205(b), Aug. 23, 1994, 108 Stat. 1583, provided that: 
“Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 23, 1994], the Secretary shall complete a study of—“(1) the aviation safety effects of gambling applications on electronic interactive video systems installed on board aircraft for passenger use, including an evaluation of the effect of such systems on the navigational and other electronic equipment of the aircraft, on the passengers and crew of the aircraft, and on issues relating to the method of payment;

“(2) the competitive implications of permitting foreign air carriers only, but not United States air carriers, to install, transport, and operate gambling applications on electronic interactive video systems on board aircraft in the foreign commerce of the United States on flights over international waters, or in fifth freedom city-pair markets; and

“(3) whether gambling should be allowed on international flights, including proposed legislation to effectuate any recommended changes in existing law.


The Secretary shall, within 5 days after the completion of the study, submit a report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Public Works and Transportation [now Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure] of the House of Representatives on the results of the study.”
