§ 16193. National Building Performance Initiative(a) Interagency group(1) In generalNot later than 90 days after August 8, 2005, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall establish an interagency group to develop, in coordination with the advisory committee established under subsection (e), a National Building Performance Initiative (referred to in this section as the “Initiative”).


(2) CochairsThe interagency group shall be co-chaired by appropriate officials of the Department and the Department of Commerce, who shall jointly arrange for the provision of necessary administrative support to the group.



(b) Integration of effortsThe Initiative shall integrate Federal, State, and voluntary private sector efforts to reduce the costs of construction, operation, maintenance, and renovation of commercial, industrial, institutional, and residential buildings.


(c) Plan(1) In generalNot later than 1 year after August 8, 2005, the interagency group shall submit to Congress a plan for carrying out the appropriate Federal role in the Initiative.


(2) InclusionsThe plan shall include—(A) research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of energy technology systems and materials for new construction and retrofit relating to the building envelope and building system components;

(B) research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of energy technology and infrastructure enabling the energy efficient, automated operation of buildings and building equipment; and

(C) the collection, analysis, and dissemination of research results and other pertinent information on enhancing building performance to industry, government entities, and the public.



(d) Department of Energy roleWithin the Federal portion of the Initiative, the Department shall be the lead agency for all aspects of building performance related to use and conservation of energy.


(e) Advisory committeeThe Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall establish an advisory committee to—(1) analyze and provide recommendations on potential private sector roles and participation in the Initiative; and

(2) review and provide recommendations on the plan described in subsection (c).


(f) AdministrationNothing in this section provides any Federal agency with new authority to regulate building performance.


(Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 913, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 860.)
