§ 300jj–13. HIT Standards Committee(a) EstablishmentThere is established a committee to be known as the HIT Standards Committee to recommend to the National Coordinator standards, implementation specifications, and certification criteria for the electronic exchange and use of health information for purposes of adoption under section 300jj–14 of this title, consistent with the implementation of the strategic plan described in section 300jj–11(c)(3) of this title and beginning with the areas listed in section 300jj–12(b)(2)(B) of this title in accordance with policies developed by the HIT Policy Committee.


(b) Duties(1) Standards development(A) In generalThe HIT Standards Committee shall recommend to the National Coordinator standards, implementation specifications, and certification criteria described in subsection (a) that have been developed, harmonized, or recognized by the HIT Standards Committee. The HIT Standards Committee shall update such recommendations and make new recommendations as appropriate, including in response to a notification sent under section 300jj–14(a)(2)(B) of this title. Such recommendations shall be consistent with the latest recommendations made by the HIT Policy Committee.


(B) HarmonizationThe HIT Standards Committee recognize 11 So in original. harmonized or updated standards from an entity or entities for the purpose of harmonizing or updating standards and implementation specifications in order to achieve uniform and consistent implementation of the standards and implementation specifications.


(C) Pilot testing of standards and implementation specificationsIn the development, harmonization, or recognition of standards and implementation specifications, the HIT Standards Committee shall, as appropriate, provide for the testing of such standards and specifications by the National Institute for Standards and Technology under section 17911(a) of this title.


(D) ConsistencyThe standards, implementation specifications, and certification criteria recommended under this subsection shall be consistent with the standards for information transactions and data elements adopted pursuant to section 1320d–2 of this title.



(2) ForumThe HIT Standards Committee shall serve as a forum for the participation of a broad range of stakeholders to provide input on the development, harmonization, and recognition of standards, implementation specifications, and certification criteria necessary for the development and adoption of a nationwide health information technology infrastructure that allows for the electronic use and exchange of health information.


(3) ScheduleNot later than 90 days after February 17, 2009, the HIT Standards Committee shall develop a schedule for the assessment of policy recommendations developed by the HIT Policy Committee under section 300jj–12 of this title. The HIT Standards Committee shall update such schedule annually. The Secretary shall publish such schedule in the Federal Register.


(4) Public inputThe HIT Standards Committee shall conduct open public meetings and develop a process to allow for public comment on the schedule described in paragraph (3) and recommendations described in this subsection. Under such process comments shall be submitted in a timely manner after the date of publication of a recommendation under this subsection.


(5) ConsiderationThe National Coordinator shall ensure that the relevant and available recommendations and comments from the National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics are considered in the development of standards.



(c) Membership and operations(1) In generalThe National Coordinator shall take a leading position in the establishment and operations of the HIT Standards Committee.


(2) MembershipThe membership of the HIT Standards Committee shall at least reflect providers, ancillary healthcare workers, consumers, purchasers, health plans, technology vendors, researchers, relevant Federal agencies, and individuals with technical expertise on health care quality, privacy and security, and on the electronic exchange and use of health information.


(3) ParticipationThe members of the HIT Standards Committee appointed under this subsection shall represent a balance among various sectors of the health care system so that no single sector unduly influences the recommendations of such Committee.


(4) Outside involvementThe HIT Policy Committee shall ensure an opportunity for the participation in activities of the Committee of outside advisors, including individuals with expertise in the development of standards for the electronic exchange and use of health information, including in the areas of health information privacy and security.


(5) Balance among sectorsIn developing the procedures for conducting the activities of the HIT Standards Committee, the HIT Standards Committee shall act to ensure a balance among various sectors of the health care system so that no single sector unduly influences the actions of the HIT Standards Committee.


(6) AssistanceFor the purposes of carrying out this section, the Secretary may provide or ensure that financial assistance is provided by the HIT Standards Committee to defray in whole or in part any membership fees or dues charged by such Committee to those consumer advocacy groups and not for profit entities that work in the public interest as a part of their mission.



(d) Application of FACAThe Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), other than section 14, shall apply to the HIT Standards Committee.


(e) PublicationThe Secretary shall provide for publication in the Federal Register and the posting on the Internet website of the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology of all recommendations made by the HIT Standards Committee under this section.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XXX, § 3003, as added Pub. L. 111–5, div. A, title XIII, § 13101, Feb. 17, 2009, 123 Stat. 238.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (d), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


