§ 8004. Congregate services program(a) Essential services for maintaining independent livingCongregate services programs assisted under this chapter must include full meal service adequate to meet nutritional needs, and may also include housekeeping aid, personal assistance, and other services essential for maintaining independent living.


(b) Duplication of servicesNo services funded under this chapter may duplicate services which are already affordable, accessible, and sufficiently available on a long-term basis to eligible project residents under programs administered by or receiving appropriations through any department, agency, or instrumentality of the Federal Government or any other public or private department, agency, or organization.


(c) Consultation with Area Agency on Aging or other appropriate State agencyA public housing agency or nonprofit corporation applying for assistance to provide congregate services to elderly residents shall consult with the Area Agency on Aging (or, where no Area Agency on Aging exists, with the appropriate State agency under the Older Americans Act of 1965 [42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.]) in determining the means of providing services under this chapter and in identifying alternative available sources of funding for such services.


(d) Submission of proposed application to Area Agency on Aging or other appropriate State agencyPrior to the submission of a final application for either new or renewed funding under this chapter for the provision of congregate services to elderly residents, a public housing agency and a nonprofit corporation shall present a copy of a proposed application to the Area Agency on Aging (or, where no Area Agency on Aging exists to the appropriate State agency under the Older Americans Act of 1965 [42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.]) for review and comment. Such agency and nonprofit corporation shall consider such review and comment in the development of any final application for either new or renewed funding under this chapter.


(e) Nonelderly handicapped individuals as eligible project residents(1) A public housing agency or nonprofit corporation applying for assistance to provide congregate services to nonelderly handicapped residents shall consult with the appropriate agency, if any, designated by applicable State law as having responsibility for the development, provision, or identification of social services to permanently disabled adults, for the purpose of determining the means of providing services under this chapter and of identifying alternative available sources of funding for such services.

(2) Such public housing agency and nonprofit corporation shall also, prior to the submission of a final application for either new or renewed funding under this chapter, present a copy of the proposed application to such appropriate agency for review and comment. The public housing agency and nonprofit corporation shall consider such review and comment in the development of any final application for either new or renewed funding under this chapter.


(f) Manner of providing congregate servicesAny nonprofit corporation or public housing agency receiving assistance under this chapter may provide congregate services directly to eligible project residents or may, by contract or lease, provide such services through other appropriate agencies or providers.


(g) Amount of annual contributions of receiving agencyNonprofit corporations and public housing agencies receiving assistance for congregate services programs under this chapter shall be required to maintain the same dollar amount of annual contribution which they were making, if any, in support of the provision of services eligible for assistance under this chapter before the date of the submission of the application for such assistance unless the Secretary determines that the waiver of this requirement is necessary for the maintenance of adequate levels of services to eligible project residents. If any contract or lease entered into by a public housing agency or nonprofit corporation pursuant to subsection (f) of this section provides for adjustments in payments for services to reflect changes in the cost of living, then the amount of annual contribution required to be maintained by such public agency or nonprofit corporation under the preceding sentence shall be readjusted in the same manner.


(h) Fees for meal and other servicesEach nonprofit corporation and public housing agency shall establish fees for meal service and other appropriate services provided to eligible project residents. These fees shall be reasonable, may not exceed the cost of providing the service, and shall be calculated on a sliding scale related to income which permits the provision of services to such residents who cannot afford meal and service fees. When meal services are provided to other project residents, fees shall be reasonable and may not exceed the cost of providing the meal service.


(i) Standards for provision of servicesThe Secretary shall establish standards for the provision of services under this chapter, and, in developing such service standards, the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and with appropriate organizations representing the elderly and handicapped, as determined by the Secretary.


(Pub. L. 95–557, title IV, § 405, Oct. 31, 1978, 92 Stat. 2106; Pub. L. 96–399, title II, § 208, Oct. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 1634; Pub. L. 98–479, title II, § 201(j), Oct. 17, 1984, 98 Stat. 2228.)


References in TextThe Older Americans Act of 1965, referred to in subsecs. (c) and (d), is Pub. L. 89–73, July 14, 1965, 79 Stat. 218, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 3001 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3001 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1984—Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 98–479 substituted “Health and Human Services” for “the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare”.
1980—Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 96–399, § 208(a), (b), inserted reference to congregate services to elderly residents.
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 96–399, § 208(c), in par. (1) substituted “A public housing agency or nonprofit corporation applying for assistance to provide congregate services to nonelderly handicapped residents shall consult with the appropriate agency” for “When nonelderly handicapped individuals are included among the eligible project residents, the public housing agency and nonprofit corporation shall consult with the appropriate local agency”, and in par. (2) substituted “appropriate agency” for “appropriate local agency”.


