“In any case where application for recomputation under section 215(f)(3) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 415(f)(3)] is filed on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Sept. 13, 1960] with respect to an individual for whom the last previous computation of the primary insurance amount was based on an application filed prior to 1961, or who died before 1961, the provisions of section 215 of such Act [42 U.S.C. 415] as in effect prior to the enactment of this Act shall apply except that—“(1) such recomputation shall be made as provided in section 215(a) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 415(a)] (as in effect prior to the enactment of this Act) and as though such individual first became entitled to old-age insurance benefits in the month in which he filed his application for such recomputation or died without filing such an application, and his closing date for such purposes shall be as specified in such section 215(f)(3); and

“(2) the provisions of section 215(b)(4) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 415(b)(4)] (as in effect prior to the enactment of this Act) shall apply only if they were applicable to the last previous computation of such individual’s primary insurance amount, or would have been applicable to such computation if there had been taken into account—“(A) his wages and self-employment income in the year in which he became entitled to old-age insurance benefits or filed application for the last previous recomputation of his primary insurance amount, where he is living at the time of the application for recomputation under this subsection, or

“(B) his wages and self-employment income in the year in which he died without becoming entitled to old-age insurance benefits, or (if he was entitled to such benefits) the year in which application was filed for the last previous computation of his primary insurance amount or in which he died, whichever first occurred, where he has died at the time of the application for such recomputation.



If the primary insurance amount of an individual was recomputed under section 215(f)(3) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 415(f)(3)] as in effect prior to the enactment of this Act, and such amount would have been larger if the recomputation had been made under such section as modified by this subsection, then the Secretary shall recompute such primary insurance amount under such section as so modified, but only if an application for such recomputation is filed on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Sept. 13, 1960]. A recomputation under the preceding sentence shall be effective for and after the first month for which the last previous recomputation of such individual’s primary insurance amount under such section 215 [42 U.S.C. 415] was effective, but in no event for any month prior to the twenty-fourth month before the month in which the application for a recomputation is filed under the preceding sentence.”
