§ 14505. Definitions
For purposes of this chapter:(1) Economic lossThe term “economic loss” means any pecuniary loss resulting from harm (including the loss of earnings or other benefits related to employment, medical expense loss, replacement services loss, loss due to death, burial costs, and loss of business or employment opportunities) to the extent recovery for such loss is allowed under applicable State law.


(2) HarmThe term “harm” includes physical, nonphysical, economic, and noneconomic losses.


(3) Noneconomic lossesThe term “noneconomic losses” means losses for physical and emotional pain, suffering, inconvenience, physical impairment, mental anguish, disfigurement, loss of enjoyment of life, loss of society and companionship, loss of consortium (other than loss of domestic service), hedonic damages, injury to reputation and all other nonpecuniary losses of any kind or nature.


(4) Nonprofit organizationThe term “nonprofit organization” means—(A) any organization which is described in section 501(c)(3) of title 26 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such title and which does not practice any action which constitutes a hate crime referred to in subsection (b)(1) of the first section of the Hate Crime Statistics Act (28 U.S.C. 534 note); or

(B) any not-for-profit organization which is organized and conducted for public benefit and operated primarily for charitable, civic, educational, religious, welfare, or health purposes and which does not practice any action which constitutes a hate crime referred to in subsection (b)(1) of the first section of the Hate Crime Statistics Act (28 U.S.C. 534 note).


(5) StateThe term “State” means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, any other territory or possession of the United States, or any political subdivision of any such State, territory, or possession.


(6) VolunteerThe term “volunteer” means an individual performing services for a nonprofit organization or a governmental entity who does not receive—(A) compensation (other than reasonable reimbursement or allowance for expenses actually incurred); or

(B) any other thing of value in lieu of compensation,


in excess of $500 per year, and such term includes a volunteer serving as a director, officer, trustee, or direct service volunteer.

(Pub. L. 105–19, § 6, June 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 221.)


References in TextThe Hate Crime Statistics Act, referred to in par. (4), is Pub. L. 101–275, Apr. 23, 1990, 104 Stat. 140, which is set out as a note under section 534 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


