§ 15062. Grant awards(a) Existing Centers(1) In generalIn awarding and distributing grant funds under section 15061(a)of this title for a fiscal year, the Secretary, subject to the availability of appropriations and the condition specified in subsection (d) of this section, shall award and distribute grant funds in equal amounts of $500,000 (adjusted in accordance with subsection (b) of this section), to each Center that existed during the preceding fiscal year and that meets the requirements of this part, prior to making grants under subsection (c) or (d) of this section.


(2) Reduction of awardNotwithstanding paragraph (1), if the aggregate of the funds to be awarded to the Centers pursuant to paragraph (1) for any fiscal year exceeds the total amount appropriated under section 15066 of this title for such fiscal year, the amount to be awarded to each Center for such fiscal year shall be proportionately reduced.



(b) AdjustmentsSubject to the availability of appropriations, for any fiscal year following a year in which each Center described in subsection (a) of this section received a grant award of not less than $500,000 under subsection (a) of this section (adjusted in accordance with this subsection), the Secretary shall adjust the awards to take into account the most recent percentage change in the Consumer Price Index published by the Secretary of Labor under section 720(c)(1) of title 29 (if the percentage change indicates an increase), prior to making grants under subsection (c) or (d) of this section.


(c) National training initiatives on critical and emerging needsSubject to the availability of appropriations, for any fiscal year in which each Center described in subsection (a) of this section receives a grant award of not less than $500,000, under subsection (a) of this section (adjusted in accordance with subsection (b) of this section), after making the grant awards, the Secretary shall make grants under section 15061(b) of this title to Centers to pay for the Federal share of the cost of training initiatives related to the unmet needs of individuals with developmental disabilities and their families, as described in section 15063(b) of this title.


(d) Additional grantsFor any fiscal year in which each Center described in subsection (a) of this section receives a grant award of not less than $500,000 under subsection (a) of this section (adjusted in accordance with subsection (b) of this section), after making the grant awards, the Secretary may make grants under section 15061(a) of this title for activities described in section 15063(a) of this title to additional Centers, or additional grants to Centers, for States or populations that are unserved or underserved by Centers due to such factors as—(1) population;

(2) a high concentration of rural or urban areas; or

(3) a high concentration of unserved or underserved populations.


(Pub. L. 106–402, title I, § 152, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1719.)
