§ 300ee–3. Continuing education for health care providers(a) In generalThe Secretary of Health and Human Services (hereafter in this section referred to as the “Secretary”) may make grants to nonprofit organizations composed of, or representing, health care providers to assist in the payment of the costs of projects to train such providers concerning—(1) appropriate infection control procedures to reduce the transmission of the etiologic agent for acquired immune deficiency syndrome; and

(2) the provision of care and treatment to individuals with such syndrome or related illnesses.


(b) LimitationThe Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) of this section to an entity only if the entity will provide services under the grant in a geographic area, or to a population of individuals, not served by a program substantially similar to the program described in subsection (a) of this section.


(c) Requirement of matching funds(1) The Secretary may not make a grant under subsection (a) of this section unless the applicant for the grant agrees, with respect to the costs to be incurred by the applicant in carrying out the purpose described in such subsection, to make available, directly or through donations from public or private entities, non-Federal contributions (in cash or in kind under paragraph (2)) toward such costs in an amount equal to not less than $2 for each $1 of Federal funds provided in such payments.

(2) Non-Federal contributions required in paragraph (1) may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts provided by the Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized to any significant extent by the Federal Government, may not be included in determining the amount of such non-Federal contributions.


(d) Requirement of applicationThe Secretary may not make a grant under subsection (a) of this section unless—(1) an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary;

(2) with respect to carrying out the purpose for which the grant is to be made, the application provides assurances of compliance satisfactory to the Secretary; and

(3) the application otherwise is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this section.


(e) Authorization of appropriationsFor the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1989 through 1991.


(Pub. L. 100–607, title II, § 254, Nov. 4, 1988, 102 Stat. 3109.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the AIDS Amendments of 1988 and as part of the Health Omnibus Programs Extension of 1988, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.


