§ 5556a. Solar photovoltaic energy systems studies and acquisitions by Secretary of Energy; scope, contents, and submission dates for reports; acquisition authority and requirements; authorization of appropriations(a) The Secretary of Energy shall—(1) initiate and conduct an “application and system design study”, cooperatively with appropriate Federal agencies, to determine the potential for the use of solar photovoltaic systems at specific Federal installations; and this study shall—(A) include an analysis of those sites that are currently cost-effective for solar photovoltaic energy systems, using life-cycle costing techniques, as well as those which would be cost-effective at expected future market prices;

(B) identify potential sites and uses of solar photovoltaic energy systems at the following agencies as well as any others which the Secretary of Energy deems necessary:(i) the Department of Defense;

(ii) the Department of Transportation (including the United States Coast Guard, the Federal Aviation Administration, and the Federal Highway Administration);

(iii) the Department of Commerce;

(iv) the Department of Agriculture; and

(v) the Department of the Interior;


(C) provide a preliminary report to Congress within nine months following February 25, 1978;

(D) include the presentation of a detailed plan for the implementation of solar photovoltaic energy systems for power generation at specific sites in Federal Government agencies to Congress within twelve months following February 25, 1978;


(2) initiate and conduct a study of the options available to the Federal Government to provide for the adequate growth of the solar photovoltaic industry and to include such possible incentives as government funding, loan guarantees, tax incentives, the operation of pilot plants or production lines and other incentives deemed worthy of consideration by the Secretary of Energy. A preliminary report shall be submitted to Congress within six months following February 25, 1978;

(3) initiate and conduct a study involving the prospects for applications of solar photovoltaic energy systems for power generation in foreign countries, particularly lesser developed countries, and the potential for the exportation of these energy systems. This study shall involve the cooperation of the Department of State and the Department of Commerce, as well as other Federal agencies which the Secretary of Energy deems appropriate. A final report shall be submitted to the Congress, as well as a preliminary report within twelve months of February 25, 1978; and

(4) be authorized to acquire up to an additional 4.0 megawatts (peak) of solar photovoltaic energy systems. The sum of $13,000,000 is hereby authorized to be appropriated (in addition to any other amounts authorized by this Act to be appropriated) for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1978, and for delivery in the following twelve months. Such sums shall remain available until expended. The solar photovoltaic energy systems acquired shall be available for use for power generation by Federal agencies, provided that no procurement takes place until their application on Federal sites is determined to be life cycle cost effective.


(b) For technology development, particularly for engineering design and development of the manufacturing process of solar photovoltaic energy systems (primarily for the implementation of automated processes and other cost reducing production technologies), the sum of $6,000,000 is hereby authorized by this Act to be appropriated for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1978.

(Pub. L. 95–238, title II, § 208, Feb. 25, 1978, 92 Stat. 75.)


References in TextThis Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(4), means Pub. L. 95–238, Feb. 25, 1978, 92 Stat. 47, as amended, known as the Department of Energy Act of 1978—Civilian Applications. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Department of Energy Act of 1978—Civilian Applications, and not as part of the Solar Energy Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1974 which comprises this subchapter.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.

Nonapplicability of Title II of Pub. L. 95–238 to Any Authorization or Appropriation for Military Application of Nuclear Energy, Etc.; DefinitionsNonapplicability of provisions of title II of Pub. L. 95–238 with respect to any authorization or appropriation for any military application of nuclear energy, etc., see section 209 of Pub. L. 95–238, set out as a note under section 5821 of this title.


