§ 290bb–41. Training grants(a) In generalThe Secretary shall award grants in accordance with the provisions of this section.


(b) Mental illness awareness training grants(1) In generalThe Secretary shall award grants to States, political subdivisions of States, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and nonprofit private entities to train teachers and other relevant school personnel to recognize symptoms of childhood and adolescent mental disorders, to refer family members to the appropriate mental health services if necessary, to train emergency services personnel to identify and appropriately respond to persons with a mental illness, and to provide education to such teachers and personnel regarding resources that are available in the community for individuals with a mental illness.


(2) Emergency services personnelIn this subsection, the term “emergency services personnel” includes paramedics, firefighters, and emergency medical technicians.


(3) Distribution of awardsThe Secretary shall ensure that such grants awarded under this subsection are equitably distributed among the geographical regions of the United States and between urban and rural populations.


(4) ApplicationA State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, tribal organization, or nonprofit private entity that desires a grant under this subsection shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including a plan for the rigorous evaluation of activities that are carried out with funds received under a grant under this subsection.


(5) Use of fundsA State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, tribal organization, or nonprofit private entity receiving a grant under this subsection shall use funds from such grant to—(A) train teachers and other relevant school personnel to recognize symptoms of childhood and adolescent mental disorders and appropriately respond;

(B) train emergency services personnel to identify and appropriately respond to persons with a mental illness; and

(C) provide education to such teachers and personnel regarding resources that are available in the community for individuals with a mental illness.


(6) EvaluationA State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, tribal organization, or nonprofit private entity that receives a grant under this subsection shall prepare and submit an evaluation to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require, including an evaluation of activities carried out with funds received under the grant under this subsection and a process and outcome evaluation.


(7) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection, $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2001 and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2002 through 2003.



(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 520J, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXII, § 3213, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1206.)
