§ 8321. Temporary exemptions(a) General exemption due to lack of alternate fuel supply, site limitations, or environmental requirementsAfter consideration of a petition (and comments thereon) for an exemption for a powerplant from the prohibitions of part A, the Secretary shall, by order, grant an exemption under this subsection for the use of natural gas or petroleum, if he finds that the petitioner has demonstrated that for the period of the proposed exemption, despite diligent good faith efforts—(1) it is likely that an adequate and reliable supply of coal or other alternate fuel of the quality necessary to conform with design and operational requirements for use as a primary energy source will not be available to such powerplant at a cost (taking into account associated facilities for the transportation and use of such fuel) which, based upon the best practicable estimates, does not substantially exceed the cost, as determined by rule by the Secretary, of the fuel that would be used as a primary energy source;

(2) one or more site limitations exist which would ot 11 So in original. Probably should be “not”. permit the location or operation of such a powerplant using coal or any other alternate fuel as a primary energy source; or

(3) the prohibitions of section 8311 of this title could not be satisfied without violating applicable environmental requirements.


(b) Temporary exemption based upon future use of synthetic fuelsAfter consideration of a petition (and comments thereon) for an exemption for a powerplant from the prohibitions of part A, the Secretary shall, by order, grant an exemption under this subsection for the use of natural gas or petroleum, if he finds that the petitioner has demonstrated that—(1) the petitioner will comply with the prohibitions of part A by the end of the proposed exemption by the use of a synthetic fuel derived from coal or another alternate fuel; and

(2) the petitioner is not able to comply with such prohibitions by the use of such synthetic fuel until the end of the proposed exemption.


The effectiveness of an exemption under this subsection is conditioned on the petitioner filing and maintaining a compliance plan meeting the requirements of section 8324(b) of this title.

(c), (d) Repealed. Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(5)(E), May 21, 1987, 101 Stat. 312

(e) Duration of temporary exemptions(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), exemptions under this section for any powerplant may not exceed, taking into account any extension or renewal, 5 years.

(2)(A) An exemption under subsection (a)(1) of this section may be granted for a period of more than 5 years, but may not exceed, taking into account any extension or renewal, 10 years.

(B) An exemption under subsection (b) of this section may be extended beyond the 5-year limit under paragraph (1), but such exemption, so extended, may not exceed 10 years.


(3) If an exemption is granted for any powerplant before the powerplant is placed in service, the period before it is placed in service shall not be taken into account in computing the 5-year and the 10-year limitations of paragraphs (1) and (2).


(Pub. L. 95–620, title II, § 211, Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3299; Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(5), May 21, 1987, 101 Stat. 312.)

Amendments1987—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(5)(A)–(D), substituted “from” for “or installation from one or more of” in introductory provisions, substituted “the fuel that would be used” for “using imported petroleum” and struck out “or installation” after “powerplant” in par. (1), struck out “or installation” after “powerplant” in par. (2), and struck out “or 8312” after “8311” in par. (3).
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(5)(A), substituted “from” for “or installation from one or more of”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(5)(E), struck out subsec. (c) which read as follows: “After consideration of a petition (and comments thereon) for an exemption for a powerplant or installation from one or more of the prohibitions of part A, the Secretary may, by order, grant an exemption under this subsection for the use of natural gas or petroleum, if he finds that the petitioner has demonstrated that for the period of the proposed exemption the issuance of such exemption would be in the public interest and would be consistent with the purposes of this chapter.”
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(5)(E), struck out subsec. (d) which read as follows: “After consideration of a petition (and comments thereon) for an exemption from the prohibition of the use of petroleum under section 8312 of this title for an installation with a design capacity of consuming any fuel (or any mixture thereof) at a fuel heat input rate which does not exceed 300 million Btu’s per hour, the Secretary may, by order, grant an exemption under this subsection for the use of petroleum if he finds that the petitioner has demonstrated, by the existence of binding contracts or other evidence, including appropriate State construction permits, that he will use coal or another alternate fuel for at least 75 percent of the annual fuel heat input rate upon the expiration of such exemption. For provisions relating to authority to receive, consider and granting (or denying) certain petitons [sic] for an exemption under this subsection, see section 902(b).”
Subsec. (e)(1), (3). Pub. L. 100–42, § 1(c)(5)(B), struck out “or installation” after “powerplant” wherever appearing.

Exemption for Certain Electric Powerplants and Temporary Exemption Issued Under Subsection (d) as Effective Prior to 180 Days After November 9, 1978For effectiveness of exemption for certain electric powerplants and the temporary exemption issued under subsec. (d) of this section as prior to 180 days after Nov. 9, 1978, see section 902 of Pub. L. 95–620, set out as a note under section 8301 of this title.


