§ 10413. National domestic violence hotline grant(a) In generalThe Secretary shall award a grant to 1 or more private entities to provide for the ongoing operation of a 24-hour, national, toll-free telephone hotline to provide information and assistance to adult and youth victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, family and household members of such victims, and persons affected by the victimization. The Secretary shall give priority to applicants with experience in operating a hotline that provides assistance to adult and youth victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence.


(b) TermThe Secretary shall award a grant under this section for a period of not more than 5 years.


(c) Conditions on paymentThe provision of payments under a grant awarded under this section shall be subject to annual approval by the Secretary and subject to the availability of appropriations for each fiscal year to make the payments.


(d) ApplicationTo be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall submit an application to the Secretary that shall—(1) contain such agreements, assurances, and information, be in such form, and be submitted in such manner, as the Secretary shall prescribe;

(2) include a complete description of the applicant’s plan for the operation of a national domestic violence hotline, including descriptions of—(A) the training program for hotline personnel, including technology training to ensure that all persons affiliated with the hotline are able to effectively operate any technological systems used by the hotline;

(B) the hiring criteria and qualifications for hotline personnel;

(C) the methods for the creation, maintenance, and updating of a resource database;

(D) a plan for publicizing the availability of the hotline;

(E) a plan for providing service to non-English speaking callers, including service through hotline personnel who have non-English language capability;

(F) a plan for facilitating access to the hotline by persons with hearing impairments; and

(G) a plan for providing assistance and referrals to youth victims of domestic violence and for victims of dating violence who are minors, which may be carried out through a national teen dating violence hotline;


(3) demonstrate that the applicant has recognized expertise in the area of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence and a record of high quality service to victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, including a demonstration of support from advocacy groups and State Domestic Violence Coalitions;

(4) demonstrate that the applicant has the capacity and the expertise to maintain a domestic violence hotline and a comprehensive database of service providers;

(5) demonstrate the ability to provide information and referrals for callers, directly connect callers to service providers, and employ crisis interventions meeting the standards of family violence, domestic violence, and dating violence providers;

(6) demonstrate that the applicant has a commitment to diversity and to the provision of services to underserved populations, including to ethnic, racial, and non-English speaking minorities, in addition to older individuals and individuals with disabilities;

(7) demonstrate that the applicant complies with nondisclosure requirements as described in section 10406(c)(5) of this title and follows comprehensive quality assurance practices; and

(8) contain such other information as the Secretary may require.


(e) Hotline activities(1) In generalAn entity that receives a grant under this section for activities described, in whole or in part, in subsection (a) shall use funds made available through the grant to establish and operate a 24-hour, national, toll-free telephone hotline to provide information and assistance to adult and youth victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, and other individuals described in subsection (a).


(2) ActivitiesIn establishing and operating the hotline, the entity—(A) shall contract with a carrier for the use of a toll-free telephone line;

(B) shall employ, train (including providing technology training), and supervise personnel to answer incoming calls, provide counseling and referral services for callers on a 24-hour-a-day basis, and directly connect callers to service providers;

(C) shall assemble and maintain a database of information relating to services for adult and youth victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence to which callers may be referred throughout the United States, including information on the availability of shelters and supportive services for victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence;

(D) shall widely publicize the hotline throughout the United States, including to potential users;

(E) shall provide assistance and referrals to meet the needs of underserved populations and individuals with disabilities;

(F) shall provide assistance and referrals for youth victims of domestic violence and for victims of dating violence who are minors, which may be carried out through a national teen dating violence hotline;

(G) may provide appropriate assistance and referrals for family and household members of victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, and persons affected by the victimization described in subsection (a); and

(H) at the discretion of the hotline operator, may provide assistance, or referrals for counseling or intervention, for identified adult and youth perpetrators, including self-identified perpetrators, of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, but shall not be required to provide such assistance or referrals in any circumstance in which the hotline operator fears the safety of a victim may be impacted by an abuser or suspected abuser.



(f) Reports and evaluationThe entity receiving a grant under this section shall submit a performance report to the Secretary at such time as shall be reasonably required by the Secretary. Such performance report shall describe the activities that have been carried out with such grant funds, contain an evaluation of the effectiveness of such activities, and provide such additional information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(Pub. L. 98–457, title III, § 313, as added Pub. L. 111–320, title II, § 201, Dec. 20, 2010, 124 Stat. 3504.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 10413, Pub. L. 98–457, title III, § 313, as added Pub. L. 100–294, title III, § 303(c), Apr. 25, 1988, 102 Stat. 125; amended Pub. L. 102–295, title III, § 319, May 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 209, related to family member abuse information and documentation project, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 108–36, title IV, § 409, June 25, 2003, 117 Stat. 827.


