§ 16323. Science and engineering education pilot program(a) Establishment of pilot programThe Secretary shall award a grant to a Southeastern United States consortium of major research universities that currently advances science and education by partnering with National Laboratories, to establish a regional pilot program of its SEEK–16 program for enhancing scientific, technological, engineering, and mathematical literacy, creativity, and decision-making. The consortium shall include leading research universities, one or more universities that train substantial numbers of elementary and secondary school teachers, and (where appropriate) National Laboratories.


(b) Program elementsThe regional pilot program shall include—(1) expanding strategic, formal partnerships among universities with strength in research, universities that train substantial numbers of elementary and secondary school teachers, and the private sector;

(2) combining Department expertise with one or more National Aeronautics and Space Administration Educator Resource Centers;

(3) developing programs to permit current and future teachers to participate in ongoing research projects at National Laboratories and research universities and to adapt lessons learned to the classroom;

(4) designing and implementing course work;

(5) designing and implementing a strategy for measuring and assessing progress under the program; and

(6) developing models for transferring knowledge gained under the pilot program to other institutions and areas of the United States.


(c) CategorizationA grant under this section shall be considered an authorized activity under section 7381b of this title.


(d) ReportNo later than 2 years after the award of the grant, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report outlining lessons learned and, if determined appropriate by the Secretary, containing a plan for expanding the program throughout the United States.


(Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 983, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 907.)
