§ 499a. Transfer of title to movable property; use of appropriations
Whenever an irrigation district, municipality, or water users’ organization assumes operation and maintenance of works constructed to furnish or distribute a water supply pursuant to a contract entered into with the United States in accordance with the Federal reclamation laws (Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388, and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto), the Secretary of the Interior may transfer to said district, municipality, or organization title to movable property which has been purchased with funds advanced by the district, municipality, or organization or which, in the case of property purchased with appropriated funds, is necessary to the operation and maintenance of such works and the value of which is to be repaid under a contract with the district, municipality, or organization. In order to encourage the assumption by irrigation districts, municipalities, and water users’ organizations of the operation and maintenance of works constructed to furnish or distribute a water supply, the Secretary is authorized to use appropriated funds available for the project involved to acquire movable property for transfer under the terms and conditions hereinbefore provided, at the time operation and maintenance is assumed.
(July 29, 1954, ch. 616, 68 Stat. 580; Aug. 2, 1956, ch. 884, 70 Stat. 940; Pub. L. 89–48, § 1, June 24, 1965, 79 Stat. 172.)


References in TextAct of June 17, 1902, referred to in text, is popularly known as the Reclamation Act, which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 371 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1965—Pub. L. 89–48, which directed that section 1 of the Act of July 29, 1954, be amended generally, was executed by amending generally this section which comprised all of the Act of July 29, 1954, as the probable intent of Congress, notwithstanding that such Act did not have any section designations. Prior to amendment, this section read as follows: “Whenever an irrigation district or water users’ organization assumes operation and maintenance of irrigation works pursuant to a contract entered into with the United States in accordance with the Federal reclamation laws (Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388, and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto), the Secretary of the Interior may transfer to said district or organization title to movable property which has been purchased with funds advanced by the district or organization or which, in the case of property purchased with appropriated funds, is necessary to the operation and maintenance of such works and the value of which is to be repaid under a contract with the district or organization. In order to encourage the assumption by irrigation districts and water users’ organizations of the operation and maintenance of irrigation works, the Secretary is authorized to use appropriated funds available for the project involved to acquire movable property for transfer at the time operation and maintenance is assumed under the terms and conditions hereinbefore provided.”
1956—Act Aug. 2, 1956, authorized Secretary to use appropriated funds for a project to acquire movable property for transfer to irrigation districts and other water users’ organizations to encourage them to take over operation and maintenance of reclamation projects as soon as they are completed.

Short TitleThis section is popularly known as the “Title to Movable Property Act”.


