§ 3532. Establishment of Department(a) Designation; appointment and supervision of SecretaryThere is hereby established at the seat of government an executive department to be known as the Department of Housing and Urban Development (hereinafter referred to as the “Department”). There shall be at the head of the Department a Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (hereinafter referred to as the “Secretary”), who shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Department shall be administered under the supervision and direction of the Secretary.


(b) General duties of SecretaryThe Secretary shall, among his responsibilities, advise the President with respect to Federal programs and activities relating to housing and urban development; develop and recommend to the President policies for fostering the orderly growth and development of the Nation’s urban areas; exercise leadership at the direction of the President in coordinating Federal activities affecting housing and urban development; provide technical assistance and information, including a clearinghouse service to aid State, county, town, village, or other local governments in developing solutions to community and metropolitan development problems; consult and cooperate with State Governors and State agencies, including, when appropriate, holding informal public hearings, with respect to Federal and State programs for assisting communities in developing solutions to community and metropolitan development problems and for encouraging effective regional cooperation in the planning and conduct of community and metropolitan development programs and projects; encourage comprehensive planning by the State aud 11 So in original. Probably should be “and”. local governments with a view to coordinating Federal, State, and local urban and community development activities; encourage private enterprise to serve as large a part of the Nation’s total housing and urban development needs as it can and develop the fullest cooperation with private enterprise in achieving the objectives of the Department; and conduct continuing comprehensive studies, and make available findings, with respect to the problems of housing and urban development.


(c) Denial or limitation of benefits of departmental programs, functions, or activities on basis of population or corporate status of communityNothing in this chapter shall be construed to deny or limit the benefits of any program, function, or activity assigned to the Department by this chapter or any other Act to any community on the basis of its population or corporate status, except as may be expressly provided by law.


(d) Coordination of housing and urban development programs in enterprise zonesThe Secretary shall—(1) promote the coordination of all programs under the jurisdiction of the Secretary that are carried on within an enterprise zone designated pursuant to section 11501 of this title;

(2) expedite, to the greatest extent possible, the consideration of applications for programs referred to in paragraph (1) through the consolidation of forms or otherwise; and

(3) provide, whenever possible, for the consolidation of periodic reports required under programs referred to in paragraph (1) into one summary report submitted at such intervals as may be designated by the Secretary.


(Pub. L. 89–174, § 3, Sept. 9, 1965, 79 Stat. 667; Pub. L. 90–83, § 10(b), Sept. 11, 1967, 81 Stat. 223; Pub. L. 100–242, title VII, § 705, Feb. 5, 1988, 101 Stat. 1963.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsec. (c), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 89–174, Sept. 9, 1965, 79 Stat. 667, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3531 of this title and Tables.

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 624a of former Title 5, Executive Departments and Government Officers and Employees, prior to the general revision and enactment of Title 5, Government Organization and Employee by Pub. L. 89–554, § 1, Sept. 1, 1966, 80 Stat. 378.

Amendments1988—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 100–242 added subsec. (d).
1967—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 90–83 struck out provision for compensation of Secretary.

Effective Date; Interim AppointmentsNomination and appointment of Secretary of Housing and Urban Development any time after Sept. 9, 1965, and interim designation and compensation of officer of Housing and Home Finance Agency for that office upon nonentry upon the office upon expiration of first period of sixty calendar days following Sept. 9, 1965, or on earlier date specified by Executive order, see section 11 of Pub. L. 89–174, set out as a note under section 3531 of this title.

Order of SuccessionFor order of succession during any period when both Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development are unable to perform functions and duties of office of Secretary, see Ex. Ord. No. 13243, Dec. 18, 2001, 66 F.R. 66262, listed in a table under section 3345 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Office of Lead Based Paint Abatement and Poisoning PreventionPub. L. 102–389, title II, Oct. 6, 1992, 106 Stat. 1593, provided in part that: “Notwithstanding any other provision of this or any other Act with respect to any fiscal year, the Office of Lead-Based Paint Abatement and Poisoning Prevention shall be contained within the Office of the Secretary, and said Office shall have ultimate responsibility within the Department of Housing and Urban Development, except for the Secretary, for all matters related to the abatement of lead in housing, and research related to lead abatement, consistent with the responsibilities outlined for the Office in Senate Report 102–107.”

Pub. L. 102–139, title II, Oct. 28, 1991, 105 Stat. 753, provided in part: “That there shall be established, in the Office of the Secretary, an Office of Lead Based Paint Abatement and Poisoning Prevention to be headed by a career Senior Executive Service employee who shall be responsible for all lead-based paint abatement and poisoning prevention activities (including, but not limited to, research, abatement, training regulations and policy development): Provided further, That such office shall be allocated a staffing level of twenty staff years.”


Condominium and Cooperative Study and Report; Submission to CongressPub. L. 93–383, title VII, § 821, Aug. 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 740, authorized the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to conduct a full and complete investigation and study, and report to Congress not later than one year after Aug. 22, 1974, with respect to condominiums and cooperatives, and the problems, difficulties, and abuses or potential abuses applicable to condominium and cooperative housing.


Ex. Ord. No. 11297. Coordination of Federal Urban Program
Ex. Ord. No. 11297, Aug. 11, 1966, 31 F.R. 10765, provided:
WHEREAS our Nation has become predominantly urban in character and is confronted by serious problems arising from inherited urban decay and rapid urban growth; and
WHEREAS the living standards and general welfare of its people depend upon the solution of the problems of urban life; and
WHEREAS the Congress has provided in the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act [see Short Title note under section 3531 of this title] that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (hereinafter referred to as the Secretary) shall “advise the President with respect to Federal programs and activities relating to housing and urban development; develop and recommend to the President policies for fostering the orderly growth and development of the Nation’s urban areas; and exercise leadership at the direction of the President in coordinating Federal activities affecting housing and urban development”; and
WHEREAS such activities are closely interrelated with other important Federal activities affecting urban areas so that there is a need for maximum consultation and cooperation among Federal departments and agencies in their administration of programs having impact on urban areas; and
WHEREAS such consultation and cooperation are also essential to enable the Secretary to carry out his responsibilities under that Act to “provide technical assistance and information, including a clearinghouse service to aid State, county, town, village, or other local governments in developing solutions to community and metropolitan development problems; consult and cooperate with State Governors and State agencies . . . with respect to Federal and State programs for assisting communities in developing solutions to community and metropolitan development problems and for encouraging effective regional cooperation in the planning and conduct of community and metropolitan development programs and projects”.
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and laws of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
Section 1. Functions of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. (a) To assist the Secretary in carrying out his responsibilities pursuant to the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, he shall convene, or authorize his representatives to convene, meetings at appropriate times and places of the heads, or representatives designated by them, of such Federal departments and agencies with programs affecting urban areas as he deems necessary or desirable for the following purposes:
(1) To provide a forum for consideration of mutual problems concerning Federal programs and activities affecting the development of urban areas and for the exchange of current information needed to achieve coordination of, and to avoid duplication in, such programs and activities.
(2) To promote cooperations among Federal departments and agencies in achieving consistent policies, practices, and procedures for administration of their programs affecting urban areas.
(3) To consult with and obtain the advice of the Federal departments and agencies with respect to:
(A) consultation and cooperation with State Governors and State and local agencies concerning Federal and State programs for assisting communities;
(B) provision of technical information, a clearinghouse service, and other assistance to State and local governments in solving community and metropolitan development problems; and
(C) encouragement of comprehensive planning of, and effective regional cooperation in, local urban, community, and metropolitan development activities.
(4) To identify urban development problems of particular States, metropolitan areas, or communities which require interagency or intergovernmental coordination.
(b) The Secretary shall make arrangements with such Federal departments and agencies for working groups to consider special problems arising with respect to matters described in subsection (a) of this section.
Section 2. Agency responsibilities. The heads of Federal departments and agencies have programs which have an impact on urban areas, or representatives designated by them, shall participate in meetings convened pursuant to this Order and, to the extent permitted by law and funds available, shall furnish information, at the request of the Secretary, pertaining to programs within the responsibilities of such departments or agencies, and such additional information as will assist the Secretary in providing a clearinghouse service to aid State and local governments in developing solutions to community and metropolitan development problems.
Section 3. Construction. Nothing in this Order shall be construed as subjecting any function vested by law in, or assigned pursuant to law to, any Federal department or agency or head thereof to the authority of any other agency or officer or as abrogating or restricting any such function in any manner.
Section 4. Administrative arrangements. (a) Each executive department and agency participating under section 1 or section 2 shall furnish necessary assistance for effectuating the provisions of this Order as authorized by section 214 of the Act of May 3, 1945, 59 Stat. 134 (31 U.S.C. 691) [31 U.S.C. 1346(b)].
(b) The Department of Housing and Urban Development shall provide necessary administrative services pursuant to this Order.

Lyndon B. Johnson.



Ex. Ord. No. 13602. Establishing a White House Council on Strong Cities, Strong Communities
Ex. Ord. No. 13602, Mar. 15, 2012, 77 F.R. 16131, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to forge a partnership with local communities to provide them with comprehensive technical assistance to use and compete for Federal resources more effectively and efficiently, which will enable them to develop and implement economic strategies to become more competitive, sustainable, and inclusive, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Policy. Cities, towns, and regions across our Nation continue to face difficult economic challenges. Enhancing current Federal assistance is helping to lift communities out of distress. To allow the Federal Government to better partner with these local communities to build local capacity to address economic issues, and to support comprehensive planning and regional collaboration, my Administration established the Strong Cities, Strong Communities (SC2) pilot initiative. By partnering with cities and regions to augment their vision for stability and economic growth, the SC2 was designed to help communities strengthen their capacity to create jobs and more competitive business climates, and implement locally driven community and regional planning approaches that lead to sustained economic growth, as well as ensure that Federal assistance is more efficiently provided and used.
This order improves the way the Federal Government engages with and supports local communities by better aligning resources and coordinating efforts across executive departments and agencies (agencies) so that communities across the country have access to comprehensive, localized technical assistance and planning resources to develop and implement their economic vision and strategies.
Sec. 2. White House Council on Strong Cities, Strong Communities. There is established a White House Council on Strong Cities, Strong Communities (Council) within the Department of Housing and Urban Development, to be chaired by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy (Co-Chairs).
(a) Membership. In addition to the Co-Chairs, the Council shall consist of the following members:
(i) the Secretary of the Treasury;
(ii) the Secretary of Defense;
(iii) the Attorney General;
(iv) the Secretary of the Interior;
(v) the Secretary of Agriculture;
(vi) the Secretary of Commerce;
(vii) the Secretary of Labor;
(viii) the Secretary of Health and Human Services;
(ix) the Secretary of Transportation;
(x) the Secretary of Energy;
(xi) the Secretary of Education;
(xii) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;
(xiii) the Secretary of Homeland Security;
(xiv) the Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers;
(xv) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;
(xvi) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
(xvii) the Administrator of General Services;
(xviii) the Administrator of the Small Business Administration;
(xix) the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service;
(xx) the Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts;
(xxi) the Senior Advisor and Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs and Public Engagement;
(xxii) the Assistant to the President and Cabinet Secretary;
(xxiii) the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy;
(xxiv) the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality;
(xxv) the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy; and
(xxvi) the heads of such other agencies and offices as the President may, from time to time, designate.
A member of the Council may designate, to perform the Council functions of the member, a senior-level official who is a part of the member’s agency or office, and who is a full-time officer or employee of the Federal Government.
(b) Administration. The Co-Chairs shall convene regular meetings of the Council, determine its agenda, and direct its work. The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall appoint an Executive Director of the Council to coordinate the Council’s activities. At the direction of the Co-Chairs, the Council may establish subgroups consisting exclusively of Council members or their designees, as appropriate. Agencies may detail staff to the Council to support its coordination and implementation efforts.
Sec. 3. Mission and Function of the Council. The Council shall, to the extent permitted by law, work across agencies and offices to:
(a) coordinate the development and implementation of the various components of the SC2, as determined by the Co-Chairs;
(b) coordinate agency efforts to ensure communities have access to comprehensive, localized technical assistance and planning resources to develop and execute their economic vision and strategies (including, where appropriate, efforts of existing committees or taskforces related to providing technical assistance to local governments and improving their capacity to address economic issues);
(c) ensure that members of the Council incorporate SC2 implementation efforts into their agency annual performance plans and those efforts’ outcomes into their annual performance results;
(d) provide recommendations to the President, through the Co-Chairs on:
(i) policies for building local expertise in strengthening local economies;
(ii) changes to Federal policies and programs to address issues of special importance to cities and local governments that pertain to local capacity and economic growth;
(iii) implementing best practices from the SC2 initiative Government-wide to better support cities and local governments; and
(iv) opportunities to increase the flexible utilization of existing Federal program resources across agencies to enable more performance and outcome-based funding;
(e) encourage the development of technical assistance, planning, and financing tools and implementation strategies that can be coordinated or aligned across agencies to assist communities in building local capacity to address economic issues, engaging in comprehensive planning, and advancing regional collaboration; and
(f) facilitate the exchange of ideas and strategies to help communities address economic challenges and create sustained economic opportunity.
Sec. 4. Outreach. Consistent with the objectives set forth in this order, the Council, in accordance with applicable law, shall conduct outreach to representatives of nonprofit organizations, businesses, labor organizations, State and local government agencies, school districts, elected officials, faith and other community-based organizations, philanthropies, other institutions of local importance, and other interested persons with relevant expertise in the expansion and improvement of efforts to build local capacity to address economic issues in cities and communities. The Council will convene an annual meeting of interested parties—including mayors and city employees—to share key findings and progress, offer best practices, and promote strategies that have worked in communities participating in the initiative.
Sec. 5. Reports. Within 1 year of the date of this order, and annually thereafter, the Executive Director shall provide a report to the Co-Chairs on the work of the Council and its achievements during the year, including demonstrable changes in the capacity of local communities to implement their economic development goals and efforts to achieve more efficient and effective use of Federal resources.
Sec. 6. General Provisions. (a) The heads of agencies shall assist and provide information to the Council, consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to implement this order. Each agency shall bear its own expense for participating in the Council.
(b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(c) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(d) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

Barack Obama.



