§ 290aa. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration(a) EstablishmentThe Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (hereafter referred to in this subchapter as the “Administration”) is an agency of the Service.


(b) AgenciesThe following entities are agencies of the Administration:(1) The Center for Substance Abuse Treatment.

(2) The Center for Substance Abuse Prevention.

(3) The Center for Mental Health Services.


(c) Administrator and Deputy Administrator(1) AdministratorThe Administration shall be headed by an Administrator (hereinafter in this subchapter referred to as the “Administrator”) who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.


(2) Deputy AdministratorThe Administrator, with the approval of the Secretary, may appoint a Deputy Administrator and may employ and prescribe the functions of such officers and employees, including attorneys, as are necessary to administer the activities to be carried out through the Administration.



(d) AuthoritiesThe Secretary, acting through the Administrator, shall—(1) supervise the functions of the agencies of the Administration in order to assure that the programs carried out through each such agency receive appropriate and equitable support and that there is cooperation among the agencies in the implementation of such programs;

(2) establish and implement, through the respective agencies, a comprehensive program to improve the provision of treatment and related services to individuals with respect to substance abuse and mental illness and to improve prevention services, promote mental health and protect the legal rights of individuals with mental illnesses and individuals who are substance abusers;

(3) carry out the administrative and financial management, policy development and planning, evaluation, knowledge dissemination, and public information functions that are required for the implementation of this subchapter;

(4) assure that the Administration conduct and coordinate demonstration projects, evaluations, and service system assessments and other activities necessary to improve the availability and quality of treatment, prevention and related services;

(5) support activities that will improve the provision of treatment, prevention and related services, including the development of national mental health and substance abuse goals and model programs;

(6) in cooperation with the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and the Health Resources and Services Administration develop educational materials and intervention strategies to reduce the risks of HIV or tuberculosis among substance abusers and individuals with mental illness and to develop appropriate mental health services for individuals with such illnesses;

(7) coordinate Federal policy with respect to the provision of treatment services for substance abuse utilizing anti-addiction medications, including methadone;

(8) conduct programs, and assure the coordination of such programs with activities of the National Institutes of Health and the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, as appropriate, to evaluate the process, outcomes and community impact of treatment and prevention services and systems of care in order to identify the manner in which such services can most effectively be provided;

(9) collaborate with the Director of the National Institutes of Health in the development of a system by which the relevant research findings of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute of Mental Health, and, as appropriate, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality are disseminated to service providers in a manner designed to improve the delivery and effectiveness of treatment and prevention services;

(10) encourage public and private entities that provide health insurance to provide benefits for substance abuse and mental health services;

(11) promote the integration of substance abuse and mental health services into the mainstream of the health care delivery system of the United States;

(12) monitor compliance by hospitals and other facilities with the requirements of sections 290dd–1 and 290dd–2 of this title;

(13) with respect to grant programs authorized under this subchapter, assure that—(A) all grants that are awarded for the provision of services are subject to performance and outcome evaluations; and

(B) all grants that are awarded to entities other than States are awarded only after the State in which the entity intends to provide services—(i) is notified of the pendency of the grant application; and

(ii) is afforded an opportunity to comment on the merits of the application;



(14) assure that services provided with amounts appropriated under this subchapter are provided bilingually, if appropriate;

(15) improve coordination among prevention programs, treatment facilities and nonhealth care systems such as employers, labor unions, and schools, and encourage the adoption of employee assistance programs and student assistance programs;

(16) maintain a clearinghouse for substance abuse and mental health information to assure the widespread dissemination of such information to States, political subdivisions, educational agencies and institutions, treatment providers, and the general public;

(17) in collaboration with the National Institute on Aging, and in consultation with the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and the National Institute of Mental Health, as appropriate, promote and evaluate substance abuse services for older Americans in need of such services, and mental health services for older Americans who are seriously mentally ill; and

(18) promote the coordination of service programs conducted by other departments, agencies, organizations and individuals that are or may be related to the problems of individuals suffering from mental illness or substance abuse, including liaisons with the Social Security Administration, Centers for Medicare &amp; Medicaid Services, and other programs of the Department, as well as liaisons with the Department of Education, Department of Justice, and other Federal Departments and offices, as appropriate.


(e) Associate Administrator for Alcohol Prevention and Treatment Policy(1) In generalThere may be in the Administration an Associate Administrator for Alcohol Prevention and Treatment Policy to whom the Administrator may delegate the functions of promoting, monitoring, and evaluating service programs for the prevention and treatment of alcoholism and alcohol abuse within the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment and the Center for Mental Health Services, and coordinating such programs among the Centers, and among the Centers and other public and private entities. The Associate Administrator also may ensure that alcohol prevention, education, and policy strategies are integrated into all programs of the Centers that address substance abuse prevention, education, and policy, and that the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention addresses the Healthy People 2010 goals and the National Dietary Guidelines of the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Agriculture related to alcohol consumption.


(2) Plan(A) The Administrator, acting through the Associate Administrator for Alcohol Prevention and Treatment Policy, shall develop, and periodically review and as appropriate revise, a plan for programs and policies to treat and prevent alcoholism and alcohol abuse. The plan shall be developed (and reviewed and revised) in collaboration with the Directors of the Centers of the Administration and in consultation with members of other Federal agencies and public and private entities.

(B) Not later than 1 year after July 10, 1992, the Administrator shall submit to the Congress the first plan developed under subparagraph (A).


(3) Report(A) Not less than once during each 2 years, the Administrator, acting through the Associate Administrator for Alcohol Prevention and Treatment Policy, shall prepare a report describing the alcoholism and alcohol abuse prevention and treatment programs undertaken by the Administration and its agencies, and the report shall include a detailed statement of the expenditures made for the activities reported on and the personnel used in connection with such activities.

(B) Each report under subparagraph (A) shall include a description of any revisions in the plan under paragraph (2) made during the preceding 2 years.

(C) Each report under subparagraph (A) shall be submitted to the Administrator for inclusion in the biennial report under subsection (k) of this section.



(f) Associate Administrator for Women’s Services(1) AppointmentThe Administrator, with the approval of the Secretary, shall appoint an Associate Administrator for Women’s Services who shall report directly to the Administrator.


(2) DutiesThe Associate Administrator appointed under paragraph (1) shall—(A) establish a committee to be known as the Coordinating Committee for Women’s Services (hereafter in this subparagraph referred to as the “Coordinating Committee”), which shall be composed of the Directors of the agencies of the Administration (or the designees of the Directors);

(B) acting through the Coordinating Committee, with respect to women’s substance abuse and mental health services—(i) identify the need for such services, and make an estimate each fiscal year of the funds needed to adequately support the services;

(ii) identify needs regarding the coordination of services;

(iii) encourage the agencies of the Administration to support such services; and

(iv) assure that the unique needs of minority women, including Native American, Hispanic, African-American and Asian women, are recognized and addressed within the activities of the Administration; and


(C) establish an advisory committee to be known as the Advisory Committee for Women’s Services, which shall be composed of not more than 10 individuals, a majority of whom shall be women, who are not officers or employees of the Federal Government, to be appointed by the Administrator from among physicians, practitioners, treatment providers, and other health professionals, whose clinical practice, specialization, or professional expertise includes a significant focus on women’s substance abuse and mental health conditions, that shall—(i) advise the Associate Administrator on appropriate activities to be undertaken by the agencies of the Administration with respect to women’s substance abuse and mental health services, including services which require a multidisciplinary approach;

(ii) collect and review data, including information provided by the Secretary (including the material referred to in paragraph (3)), and report biannually to the Administrator regarding the extent to which women are represented among senior personnel, and make recommendations regarding improvement in the participation of women in the workforce of the Administration; and

(iii) prepare, for inclusion in the biennial report required pursuant to subsection (k) of this section, a description of activities of the Committee, including findings made by the Committee regarding—(I) the extent of expenditures made for women’s substance abuse and mental health services by the agencies of the Administration; and

(II) the estimated level of funding needed for substance abuse and mental health services to meet the needs of women;



(D) improve the collection of data on women’s health by—(i) reviewing the current data at the Administration to determine its uniformity and applicability;

(ii) developing standards for all programs funded by the Administration so that data are, to the extent practicable, collected and reported using common reporting formats, linkages and definitions; and

(iii) reporting to the Administrator a plan for incorporating the standards developed under clause (ii) in all Administration programs and a plan to assure that the data so collected are accessible to health professionals, providers, researchers, and members of the public; and


(E) shall establish, maintain, and operate a program to provide information on women’s substance abuse and mental health services.


(3) Study(A) The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Personnel, shall conduct a study to evaluate the extent to which women are represented among senior personnel at the Administration.

(B) Not later than 90 days after July 10, 1992, the Assistant Secretary for Personnel shall provide the Advisory Committee for Women’s Services with a study plan, including the methodology of the study and any sampling frames. Not later than 180 days after July 10, 1992, the Assistant Secretary shall prepare and submit directly to the Advisory Committee a report concerning the results of the study conducted under subparagraph (A).

(C) The Secretary shall prepare and provide to the Advisory Committee for Women’s Services any additional data as requested.


(4) OfficeNothing in this subsection shall be construed to preclude the Secretary from establishing within the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration an Office of Women’s Health.


(5) DefinitionFor purposes of this subsection, the term “women’s substance abuse and mental health conditions”, with respect to women of all age, ethnic, and racial groups, means all aspects of substance abuse and mental illness—(A) unique to or more prevalent among women; or

(B) with respect to which there have been insufficient services involving women or insufficient data.



(g) Services of experts(1) In generalThe Administrator may obtain (in accordance with section 3109 of title 5, but without regard to the limitation in such section on the number of days or the period of service) the services of not more than 20 experts or consultants who have professional qualifications. Such experts and consultants shall be obtained for the Administration and for each of its agencies.


(2) Compensation and expenses(A) Experts and consultants whose services are obtained under paragraph (1) shall be paid or reimbursed for their expenses associated with traveling to and from their assignment location in accordance with sections 5724, 5724a(a), 5724a(c), and 5726(c) of title 5.

(B) Expenses specified in subparagraph (A) may not be allowed in connection with the assignment of an expert or consultant whose services are obtained under paragraph (1), unless and until the expert or consultant agrees in writing to complete the entire period of assignment or one year, whichever is shorter, unless separated or reassigned for reasons beyond the control of the expert or consultant that are acceptable to the Secretary. If the expert or consultant violates the agreement, the money spent by the United States for the expenses specified in subparagraph (A) is recoverable from the expert or consultant as a debt of the United States. The Secretary may waive in whole or in part a right of recovery under this subparagraph.



(h) Peer review groupsThe Administrator shall, without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, and without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title, relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, establish such peer review groups and program advisory committees as are needed to carry out the requirements of this subchapter and appoint and pay members of such groups, except that officers and employees of the United States shall not receive additional compensation for services as members of such groups. The Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not apply to the duration of a peer review group appointed under this subsection.


(i) Voluntary servicesThe Administrator may accept voluntary and uncompensated services.


(j) AdministrationThe Administrator shall ensure that programs and activities assigned under this subchapter to the Administration are fully administered by the respective Centers to which such programs and activities are assigned.


(k) Report concerning activities and progressNot later than February 10, 1994, and once every 2 years thereafter, the Administrator shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, the report containing—(1) a description of the activities carried out by the Administration;

(2) a description of any measurable progress made in improving the availability and quality of substance abuse and mental health services;

(3) a description of the mechanisms by which relevant research findings of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, and the National Institute of Mental Health have been disseminated to service providers or otherwise utilized by the Administration to further the purposes of this subchapter; and

(4) any report required in this subchapter to be submitted to the Adminstrator 11 So in original. Probably should be “Administrator”. for inclusion in the report under this subsection.


(l) Applications for grants and contractsWith respect to awards of grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts under this subchapter, the Administrator, or the Director of the Center involved, as the case may be, may not make such an award unless—(1) an application for the award is submitted to the official involved;

(2) with respect to carrying out the purpose for which the award is to be provided, the application provides assurances of compliance satisfactory to such official; and

(3) the application is otherwise in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the official determines to be necessary to carry out the purpose for which the award is to be provided.


(m) Emergency response(1) In generalNotwithstanding section 290aa–3 of this title and except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary may use not to exceed 2.5 percent of all amounts appropriated under this subchapter for a fiscal year to make noncompetitive grants, contracts or cooperative agreements to public entities to enable such entities to address emergency substance abuse or mental health needs in local communities.


(2) ExceptionsAmounts appropriated under part C of this subchapter shall not be subject to paragraph (1).


(3) EmergenciesThe Secretary shall establish criteria for determining that a substance abuse or mental health emergency exists and publish such criteria in the Federal Register prior to providing funds under this subsection.



(n) Limitation on the use of certain informationNo information, if an establishment or person supplying the information or described in it is identifiable, obtained in the course of activities undertaken or supported under section 290aa–4 of this title may be used for any purpose other than the purpose for which it was supplied unless such establishment or person has consented (as determined under regulations of the Secretary) to its use for such other purpose. Such information may not be published or released in other form if the person who supplied the information or who is described in it is identifiable unless such person has consented (as determined under regulations of the Secretary) to its publication or release in other form.


(o) Authorization of appropriationsFor the purpose of providing grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts under this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2002 and 2003.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 501, formerly Pub. L. 93–282, title II, § 201, May 14, 1974, 88 Stat. 134, as amended Pub. L. 94–371, § 8, July 26, 1976, 90 Stat. 1040; renumbered § 501 of act July 1, 1944, and amended Pub. L. 98–24, § 2(b)(2), Apr. 26, 1983, 97 Stat. 176; Pub. L. 98–509, title II, § 201, title III, § 301(c)(1), Oct. 19, 1984, 98 Stat. 2359, 2364; Pub. L. 99–570, title IV, § 4003, Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3207–106; Pub. L. 100–690, title II, § 2058(a)(2), Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4213; Pub. L. 101–93, § 3(f), Aug. 16, 1989, 103 Stat. 611; Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 101(a), July 10, 1992, 106 Stat. 324; Pub. L. 104–201, div. A, title XVII, § 1723(a)(3)(A), Sept. 23, 1996, 110 Stat. 2759; Pub. L. 106–129, § 2(b)(2), Dec. 6, 1999, 113 Stat. 1670; Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXI, § 3102, title XXXIV, § 3401(a), Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1170, 1218; Pub. L. 108–173, title IX, § 900(e)(2)(A), Dec. 8, 2003, 117 Stat. 2372; Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3509(d), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 534.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (h), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5.

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 3511 of this title prior to renumbering by Pub. L. 98–24.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 501 of act July 1, 1944, which was classified to section 219 of this title, was successively renumbered by subsequent acts and transferred, see section 238 of this title.

Amendments2010—Subsec. (f)(1). Pub. L. 111–148, § 3509(d)(1), inserted “who shall report directly to the Administrator” before period at end.
Subsec. (f)(4), (5). Pub. L. 111–148, § 3509(d)(2), (3), added par. (4) and redesignated former par. (4) as (5).
2003—Subsec. (d)(18). Pub. L. 108–173 substituted “Centers for Medicare &amp; Medicaid Services” for “Health Care Financing Administration”.
2000—Subsec. (e)(1). Pub. L. 106–310, § 3401(a), reenacted heading without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “There shall be in the Administration an Associate Administrator for Alcohol Prevention and Treatment Policy to whom the Administrator shall delegate the functions of promoting, monitoring, and evaluating service programs for the prevention and treatment of alcoholism and alcohol abuse within the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment, and the Center for Mental Health Services, and coordinating such programs among the Centers, and among the Centers and other public and private entities. The Associate Administrator also shall ensure that alcohol prevention, education, and policy strategies are integrated into all programs of the Centers that address substance abuse prevention, education, and policy, and that the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention addresses the Healthy People 2000 goals and the National Dietary Guidelines of the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Agriculture related to alcohol consumption.”
Subsecs. (m) to (o). Pub. L. 106–310, § 3102, added subsecs. (m) and (n), redesignated former subsec. (m) as (o), and substituted “2001, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2002 and 2003” for “1993, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994” before period at end.
1999—Subsec. (d)(8), (9). Pub. L. 106–129, which directed the substitution of “Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality” for “Agency for Health Care Policy and Research”, was executed by making the substitution for “Agency for Health Care Policy Research”, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
1996—Subsec. (g)(2)(A). Pub. L. 104–201 substituted “5724a(a), 5724a(c)” for “5724a(a)(1), 5724a(a)(3)”.
1992—Pub. L. 102–321 amended section generally, substituting provisions relating to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration for provisions relating to the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration.
1989—Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 101–93, § 3(f)(1), substituted “for” for “of”.
Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 101–93, § 3(f)(2), substituted “section 290aa–5 of this title, establish program advisory committees, and pay members of such groups and committees” for “section 290aa–5 of this title and appoint and pay members of such groups” and “as members of such groups or committees” for “as members of such groups”.
1988—Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 100–690, § 2058(a)(2)(A), added par. (4).
Subsec. (e)(2). Pub. L. 100–690, § 2058(a)(2)(B), substituted “Not less than once each three years, the Administrator” for “The Administrator” and “shall submit” for “shall annually submit”.
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 100–690, § 2058(a)(2)(C), substituted “misconduct” for “fraud” in heading and two places in text.
Subsecs. (k) to (m). Pub. L. 100–690, § 2058(a)(2)(D), (E), added subsecs. (k) to (m) and struck out former subsec. (k), which related to Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Advisory Board, including its duties, membership, terms of office, compensation, personnel, chairman, meetings, and reports to Congress.
1986—Pub. L. 99–570 amended section generally, revising and restating former subsecs. (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) as (c), (d), (k), (h), (e), (f), (g), and (i), respectively, and adding new subsecs. (a), (b), and (j).
1984—Pub. L. 98–509, § 301(c)(1), amended directory language of Pub. L. 98–24, § 2(b)(2). See 1983 Amendment note below.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 98–509, § 201(a), substituted provisions relating to the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Advisory Board for provisions relating to the National Panel on Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health.
Subsecs. (g), (h). Pub. L. 98–509, § 201(b), added subsecs. (g) and (h).
1983—Pub. L. 98–24, § 2(b)(2), as amended by Pub. L. 98–509, § 301(c)(1), renumbered section 3511 of this title as this section.
Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 98–24, § 2(b)(2)(A), struck out “of Health, Education, and Welfare” after “The Secretary” and “Department”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 98–24, § 2(b)(2)(A), (B), struck out “of Health, Education, and Welfare” after “The Secretary”, and made a technical amendment to reference to section 218 of this title to reflect the transfer of this section to the Public Health Service Act.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 98–24, § 2(b)(2)(C), substituted provisions directing the Administrator to distribute information on the hazards of alcoholism and the abuse of alcohol and drugs for provisions directing the Secretary, through the Administration, to evaluate and make recommendations regarding improved, coordinated activities, where appropriate, for public education and other prevention programs with respect to the abuse of alcohol and other substances.
Subsecs. (e), (f). Pub. L. 98–24, § 2(b)(2)(D), added subsecs. (e) and (f).
1976—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 94–371 added subsec. (d).


Change of Name
Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.
Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives by section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress. Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.
Centers for Disease Control changed to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention by Pub. L. 102–531, title III, § 312, Oct. 27, 1992, 106 Stat. 3504.
Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 161, July 10, 1992, 106 Stat. 375, provided that: “Reference in any other Federal law, Executive order, rule, regulation, or delegation of authority, or any document of or pertaining to the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration or to the Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration shall be deemed to refer to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration or to the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.”


Effective Date of 1996 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 104–201 effective 180 days after Sept. 23, 1996, see section 1725(a) of Pub. L. 104–201, set out as a note under section 5722 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Effective Date of 1992 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 102–321 effective Oct. 1, 1992, with provision for programs providing financial assistance, see section 801(c), (d) of Pub. L. 102–321, set out as a note under section 236 of this title.

Transfer ProvisionsPub. L. 102–321, title I, subtitle D, July 10, 1992, 106 Stat. 370, as amended by Pub. L. 102–352, § 2(b)(1), Aug. 26, 1992, 106 Stat. 939, provided that:
“SEC. 141. TRANSFERS.“(a) Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.—Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Act [see Tables for classification] or an amendment made by this Act, there are transferred to the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration all service related functions which the Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration, or the Director of any entity within the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration, exercised before the date of the enactment of this Act [July 10, 1992] and all related functions of any officer or employee of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration.

“(b) National Institutes.—Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Act or an amendment made by this Act, there are transferred to the appropriate Directors of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute of Mental Health, through the Director of the National Institutes of Health, all research related functions which the Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration exercised before the date of the enactment of this Act and all related functions of any officer or employee of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration.

“(c) Adequate Personnel and Resources.—The transfers required under this subtitle shall be effectuated in a manner that ensures that the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration has adequate personnel and resources to carry out its statutory responsibilities and that the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute of Mental Health have adequate personnel and resources to enable such institutes to carry out their respective statutory responsibilities.

