§ 508. Disclosure of payments to individuals connected with broadcasts(a) Payments to station employeesSubject to subsection (d) of this section, any employee of a radio station who accepts or agrees to accept from any person (other than such station), or any person (other than such station) who pays or agrees to pay such employee, any money, service or other valuable consideration for the broadcast of any matter over such station shall, in advance of such broadcast, disclose the fact of such acceptance or agreement to such station.


(b) Production or preparation of programsSubject to subsection (d) of this section, any person who, in connection with the production or preparation of any program or program matter which is intended for broadcasting over any radio station, accepts or agrees to accept, or pays or agrees to pay, any money, service or other valuable consideration for the inclusion of any matter as a part of such program or program matter, shall, in advance of such broadcast, disclose the fact of such acceptance or payment or agreement to the payee’s employer, or to the person for whom such program or program matter is being produced, or to the licensee of such station over which such program is broadcast.


(c) Supplying of program or program matterSubject to subsection (d) of this section, any person who supplies to any other person any program or program matter which is intended for broadcasting over any radio station shall, in advance of such broadcast, disclose to such other person any information of which he has knowledge, or which has been disclosed to him, as to any money, service or other valuable consideration which any person has paid or accepted, or has agreed to pay or accept, for the inclusion of any matter as a part of such program or program matter.


(d) Waiver of announcements under section 317(d)The provisions of this section requiring the disclosure of information shall not apply in any case where, because of a waiver made by the Commission under section 317(d) of this title, an announcement is not required to be made under section 317 of this title.


(e) Announcement under section 317 as sufficient disclosureThe inclusion in the program of the announcement required by section 317 of this title shall constitute the disclosure required by this section.


(f) “Service or other valuable consideration” definedThe term “service or other valuable consideration” as used in this section shall not include any service or property furnished without charge or at a nominal charge for use on, or in connection with, a broadcast, or for use on a program which is intended for broadcasting over any radio station, unless it is so furnished in consideration for an identification in such broadcast or in such program of any person, product, service, trademark, or brand name beyond an identification which is reasonably related to the use of such service or property in such broadcast or such program.


(g) PenaltiesAny person who violates any provision of this section shall, for each such violation, be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.


(June 19, 1934, ch. 652, title V, § 507, formerly § 508, as added Pub. L. 86–752, § 8(b), Sept. 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 896; renumbered § 507, Pub. L. 96–507, § 1, Dec. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 2747.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 507 of act June 19, 1934, ch. 652, was renumbered section 506 by section 1 of Pub. L. 96–507, and is classified to section 507 of this title.


