§ 290ff–3. Additional provisions(a) Optional servicesIn addition to services described in subsection (c) of section 290ff–1 of this title, a system of care under subsection (a) of such section may, in expending a grant under section 290ff(a) of this title, provide for—(1) preliminary assessments to determine whether a child should be provided access to the system;

(2) training in—(A) the administration of the system;

(B) the provision of intensive home-based services under paragraph (4) of section 290ff–1(c) of this title, intensive day treatment under paragraph (5) of such section, and foster care or group homes under paragraph (7) of such section; and

(C) the development of individualized plans for purposes of section 290ff–2 of this title;


(3) recreational activities for children provided access to the system; and

(4) such other services as may be appropriate in providing for the comprehensive needs with respect to mental health of children with a serious emotional disturbance.


(b) Comprehensive planThe Secretary may make a grant under section 290ff(a) of this title only if, with respect to the jurisdiction of the public entity involved, the entity has submitted to the Secretary, and has had approved by the Secretary, a plan for the development of a jurisdiction-wide system of care for community-based services for children with a serious emotional disturbance that specifies the progress the public entity has made in developing the jurisdiction-wide system, the extent of cooperation across agencies serving children in the establishment of the system, the Federal and non-Federal resources currently committed to the establishment of the system, and the current gaps in community services and the manner in which the grant under section 290ff(a) of this title will be expended to address such gaps and establish local systems of care.


(c) Limitation on imposition of fees for servicesA funding agreement for a grant under section 290ff(a) of this title is that, if a charge is imposed for the provision of services under the grant, such charge—(1) will be made according to a schedule of charges that is made available to the public;

(2) will be adjusted to reflect the income of the family of the child involved; and

(3) will not be imposed on any child whose family has income and resources of equal to or less than 100 percent of the official poverty line, as established by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and revised by the Secretary in accordance with section 9902(2) of this title.


(d) Relationship to items and services under other programsA funding agreement for a grant under section 290ff(a) of this title is that the grant, and the non-Federal contributions made with respect to the grant, will not be expended to make payment for any item or service to the extent that payment has been made, or can reasonably be expected to be made, with respect to such item or service—(1) under any State compensation program, under an insurance policy, or under any Federal or State health benefits program; or

(2) by an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis.


(e) Limitation on administrative expensesA funding agreement for a grant under section 290ff(a) of this title is that not more than 2 percent of the grant will be expended for administrative expenses incurred with respect to the grant by the public entity involved.


(f) Reports to SecretaryA funding agreement for a grant under section 290ff(a) of this title is that the public entity involved will annually submit to the Secretary a report on the activities of the entity under the grant that includes a description of the number of children provided access to systems of care operated pursuant to the grant, the demographic characteristics of the children, the types and costs of services provided pursuant to the grant, the availability and use of third-party reimbursements, estimates of the unmet need for such services in the jurisdiction of the entity, and the manner in which the grant has been expended toward the establishment of a jurisdiction-wide system of care for children with a serious emotional disturbance, and such other information as the Secretary may require with respect to the grant.


(g) Description of intended uses of grantThe Secretary may make a grant under section 290ff(a) of this title only if—(1) the public entity involved submits to the Secretary a description of the purposes for which the entity intends to expend the grant;

(2) the description identifies the populations, areas, and localities in the jurisdiction of the entity with a need for services under this section; and

(3) the description provides information relating to the services and activities to be provided, including a description of the manner in which the services and activities will be coordinated with any similar services or activities of public or nonprofit entities.


(h) Requirement of applicationThe Secretary may make a grant under section 290ff(a) of this title only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary, the application contains the description of intended uses required in subsection (g) of this section, and the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this section.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 564, as added Pub. L. 102–321, title I, § 119, July 10, 1992, 106 Stat. 355.)

Effective DateSection effective Oct. 1, 1992, with provision for programs providing financial assistance, see section 801(c), (d) of Pub. L. 102–321, set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under section 236 of this title.


