§ 16313. Catalysis research program(a) EstablishmentThe Secretary, acting through the Office of Science, shall support a program of research and development in catalysis science consistent with the statutory authorities of the Department related to research and development.


(b) ComponentsThe program shall include efforts to—(1) enable catalyst design using combinations of experimental and mechanistic methodologies coupled with computational modeling of catalytic reactions at the molecular level;

(2) develop techniques for high throughput synthesis, assay, and characterization at nanometer and subnanometer scales in-situ under actual operating conditions;

(3) synthesize catalysts with specific site architectures;

(4) conduct research on the use of precious metals for catalysis; and

(5) translate molecular understanding to the design of catalytic compounds.


(c) Duties of the Office of ScienceIn carrying out the program, the Director of the Office of Science shall—(1) support both individual investigators and multidisciplinary teams of investigators to pioneer new approaches in catalytic design;

(2) develop, plan, construct, acquire, share, or operate special equipment or facilities for the use of investigators in collaboration with national user facilities, such as nanoscience and engineering centers;

(3) support technology transfer activities to benefit industry and other users of catalysis science and engineering; and

(4) coordinate research and development activities with industry and other Federal agencies.


(d) AssessmentNot later than 3 years after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences to—(1) review the catalysis program to measure—(A) gains made in the fundamental science of catalysis; and

(B) progress towards developing new fuels for energy production and material fabrication processes; and


(2) submit to Congress a report describing the results of the review.


(Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 973, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 902.)
