§ 3796ee–8. Assessment reports(a) Reports to Attorney General(1) In generalExcept as provided in paragraph (4), for each fiscal year for which a grant or subgrant is awarded under this subchapter, each State or specially qualified unit of local government that receives such a grant shall submit to the Attorney General a grant report, and each unit of local government that receives such a subgrant shall submit to the State a subgrant report, at such time and in such manner as the Attorney General may reasonably require.


(2) Grant reportEach grant report required by paragraph (1) shall include—(A) a summary of the activities carried out with such grant;

(B) if such activities included any subgrant, a summary of the activities carried out with each such subgrant; and

(C) an assessment of the effectiveness of such activities on achieving the purposes of this subchapter.


(3) Subgrant reportEach subgrant report required by paragraph (1) shall include—(A) a summary of the activities carried out with such subgrant; and

(B) an assessment of the effectiveness of such activities on achieving the purposes of this subchapter.


(4) WaiversThe Attorney General may waive the requirement of an assessment in paragraph (2)(C) for a State or specially qualified unit of local government, or in paragraph (3)(B) for a unit of local government, if the Attorney General determines that—(A) the nature of the activities are such that assessing their effectiveness would not be practical or insightful;

(B) the amount of the grant or subgrant is such that carrying out the assessment would not be an effective use of those amounts; or

(C) the resources available to the State or unit are such that carrying out the assessment would pose a financial hardship on the State or unit.



(b) Reports to CongressNot later than 120 days after the last day of each fiscal year for which 1 or more grants are awarded under this subchapter, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress a report, which shall include—(1) a summary of the information provided under subsection (a) of this section;

(2) an assessment by the Attorney General of the grant program carried out under this subchapter; and

(3) such other information as the Attorney General considers appropriate.


(Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 1808, as added Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12102(a), Nov. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 1867.)
