“Section 174“Except as otherwise provided in this Compact, as amended, and its related agreements:“(a) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and its agencies and officials, shall be immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, and the Government of the United States, and its agencies and officials, shall be immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.

“(b) The Government of the United States accepts responsibility for and shall pay:“(1) any unpaid money judgment rendered by the High Court of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands against the Government of the United States with regard to any cause of action arising as a result of acts or omissions of the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the Government of the United States prior to October 21, 1986;

“(2) any claim settled by the claimant and the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands but not paid as of October 21, 1986; and

“(3) settlement of any administrative claim or of any action before a court of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the Government of the United States, arising as a result of acts or omissions of the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the Government of the United States.


“(c) Any claim not referred to in section 174(b) and arising from an act or omission of the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the Government of the United States prior to the effective date of the Compact shall be adjudicated in the same manner as a claim adjudicated according to section 174(d). In any claim against the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Government of the United States shall stand in the place of the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. A judgment on any claim referred to in section 174(b) or this subsection, not otherwise satisfied by the Government of the United States, may be presented for certification to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, or its successor courts, which shall have jurisdiction therefore, notwithstanding the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1502, and which court’s decisions shall be reviewable as provided by the laws of the United States. The United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit shall certify such judgment, and order payment thereof, unless it finds, after a hearing, that such judgment is manifestly erroneous as to law or fact, or manifestly excessive. In either of such cases the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit shall have jurisdiction to modify such judgment.

“(d) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall not be immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, and the Government of the United States shall not be immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the Republic of the Marshall Islands in any civil case in which an exception to foreign state immunity is set forth in the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (28 U.S.C. 1602 et seq.) or its successor statutes. [As amended Pub. L. 110–229, title VIII, § 806(b)(2)(A), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 873.]

