§ 280g–2. Childhood malignancies(a) In generalThe Secretary, acting as appropriate through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Director of the National Institutes of Health, shall study environmental and other risk factors for childhood cancers (including skeletal malignancies, leukemias, malignant tumors of the central nervous system, lymphomas, soft tissue sarcomas, and other malignant neoplasms) and carry out projects to improve outcomes among children with childhood cancers and resultant secondary conditions, including limb loss, anemia, rehabilitation, and palliative care. Such projects shall be carried out by the Secretary directly and through awards of grants or contracts.


(b) Certain activitiesActivities under subsection (a) of this section include—(1) the expansion of current demographic data collection and population surveillance efforts to include childhood cancers nationally;

(2) the development of a uniform reporting system under which treating physicians, hospitals, clinics, and States report the diagnosis of childhood cancers, including relevant associated epidemiological data; and

(3) support for the National Limb Loss Information Center to address, in part, the primary and secondary needs of persons who experience childhood cancers in order to prevent or minimize the disabling nature of these cancers.


(c) Coordination of activitiesThe Secretary shall assure that activities under this section are coordinated as appropriate with other agencies of the Public Health Service that carry out activities focused on childhood cancers and limb loss.


(d) DefinitionFor purposes of this section, the term “childhood cancer” refers to a spectrum of different malignancies that vary by histology, site of disease, origin, race, sex, and age. The Secretary may for purposes of this section revise the definition of such term to the extent determined by the Secretary to be appropriate.


(e) Authorization of appropriationsFor the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 399N, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title XI, § 1101, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1131.)
