§ 40704. Commission review(a) Request for Justification.—On request of the Federal Maritime Commission, a controlled carrier shall file with the Commission, within 20 days of the request, a statement of justification that sufficiently details the carrier’s need and purpose for an existing or proposed rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation and upon which the Commission may reasonably base a determination of its lawfulness.

(b) Determination.—Within 120 days after receipt of information requested under subsection (a), the Commission shall determine whether the rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation may be unjust and unreasonable.

(c) Show Cause Order.—Whenever the Commission is of the opinion that a rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation published or assessed by a controlled carrier may be unjust and unreasonable, the Commission shall issue an order to the controlled carrier to show cause why the rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation should not be prohibited.

(d) Suspension Pending Determination.—(1) Not yet effective.—Pending a determination of the lawfulness of a rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation in a proceeding under subsection (c), the Commission may suspend the rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation at any time before its effective date.

(2) Already effective.—If a rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation has already become effective, the Commission, on issuance of an order to show cause, may suspend the rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation on at least 30 days’ notice to the controlled carrier.

(3) Maximum suspension.—A period of suspension under this subsection may not exceed 180 days.


(e) Replacement During Suspension.—Whenever the Commission has suspended a rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation under this section, the controlled carrier may publish a new rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation to take effect immediately during the suspension in lieu of the suspended rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation. However, the Commission may reject the new rate, charge, classification, rule, or regulation if the Commission believes it is unjust and unreasonable.

(Pub. L. 109–304, § 7, Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1536.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


4070446 App.:1708(c) (last sentence), (d).Pub. L. 98–237, § 9(c) (last sentence), (d), Mar. 20, 1984, 98 Stat. 76; Pub. L. 105–258, title I, § 108(9)–(15), Oct. 14, 1998, 112 Stat. 1908.


In subsection (d)(1), the words “in a proceeding under subsection (c)” are substituted for “in such a proceeding” for clarity.


