§ 3547. Special projects(1) In general(A) Release of fundsIn order to assure that the policies of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.] and other provisions of law which further the purposes of such Act (as specified in regulations issued by the Secretary) are most effectively implemented in connection with the expenditure of funds for special projects appropriated under an appropriations Act for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, such as special projects under the head “Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing” in title II of the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, and to assure to the public undiminished protection of the environment, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may, under such regulations, in lieu of the environmental protection procedures otherwise applicable, provide for the release of funds for particular special projects upon the request of recipients of special projects assistance, if the State or unit of general local government, as designated by the Secretary in accordance with regulations, assumes all of the responsibilities for environmental review, decisionmaking, and action pursuant to such Act, and such other provisions of law as the regulations of the Secretary specify, that would otherwise apply to the Secretary were the Secretary to undertake such special projects as Federal projects.


(B) ImplementationThe Secretary shall issue regulations to carry out this section only after consultation with the Council on Environmental Quality. Such regulations shall—(i) provide for monitoring of the performance of environmental reviews under this section;

(ii) in the discretion of the Secretary, provide for the provision or facilitation of training for such performance; and

(iii) subject to the discretion of the Secretary, provide for suspension or termination by the Secretary of the assumption under subparagraph (A).


(C) Responsibilities of State or unit of general local governmentThe Secretary’s duty under subparagraph (B) shall not be construed to limit any responsibility assumed by a State or unit of general local government with respect to any particular release of funds under subparagraph (A).



(2) ProcedureThe Secretary shall approve the release of funds for projects subject to the procedures authorized by this section only if, not less than 15 days prior to such approval and prior to any commitment of funds to such projects, the recipient submits to the Secretary a request for such release, accompanied by a certification of the State or unit of general local government which meets the requirements of paragraph (3). The Secretary’s approval of any such certification shall be deemed to satisfy the Secretary’s responsibilities under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.] and such other provisions of law as the regulations of the Secretary specify insofar as those responsibilities relate to the releases of funds for special projects to be carried out pursuant thereto which are covered by such certification.


(3) CertificationA certification under the procedures authorized by this section shall—(A) be in a form acceptable to the Secretary;

(B) be executed by the chief executive officer or other officer of the State or unit of general local government who qualifies under regulations of the Secretary;

(C) specify that the State or unit of general local government under this section has fully carried out its responsibilities as described under paragraph (1); and

(D) specify that the certifying officer—(i) consents to assume the status of a responsible Federal official under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.] and each provision of law specified in regulations issued by the Secretary insofar as the provisions of such Act or other such provision of law apply pursuant to paragraph (1); and

(ii) is authorized and consents on behalf of the State or unit of general local government and himself or herself to accept the jurisdiction of the Federal courts for the purpose of enforcement of the responsibilities as such an official.



(4) Approval by StatesIn cases in which a unit of general local government carries out the responsibilities described in paragraph (1), the Secretary may permit the State to perform those actions of the Secretary described in paragraph (2) and the performance of such actions by the State, where permitted by the Secretary, shall be deemed to satisfy the Secretary’s responsibilities referred to in the second sentence of paragraph (2).


(Pub. L. 103–233, title III, § 305(c), Apr. 11, 1994, 108 Stat. 372.)


References in TextThe National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in pars. (1)(A), (2), and (3)(D)(i), is Pub. L. 91–190, Jan. 1, 1970, 83 Stat. 852, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§ 4321 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4321 of this title and Tables.
The Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, referred to in par. (1)(A), is Pub. L. 102–389, Oct. 6, 1992, 106 Stat. 1571. Provisions under the head “Annual Contributions for Assisted Housing” in title II of the Act appear at 106 Stat. 1582 and are not classified to the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Multifamily Housing Property Disposition Reform Act of 1994, and not as part of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act which comprises this chapter.


