§ 5791b. Grant program for notification and communications systems along highways for recovery of abducted children(a) Program requiredThe Secretary of Transportation shall carry out a program to provide grants to States for the development or enhancement of notification or communications systems along highways for alerts and other information for the recovery of abducted children.


(b) Development grants(1) In generalThe Secretary may make a grant to a State under this subsection for the development of a State program for the use of changeable message signs or other motorist information systems to notify motorists about abductions of children. The State program shall provide for the planning, coordination, and design of systems, protocols, and message sets that support the coordination and communication necessary to notify motorists about abductions of children.


(2) Eligible activitiesA grant under this subsection may be used by a State for the following purposes:(A) To develop general policies and procedures to guide the use of changeable message signs or other motorist information systems to notify motorists about abductions of children.

(B) To develop guidance or policies on the content and format of alert messages to be conveyed on changeable message signs or other traveler information systems.

(C) To coordinate State, regional, and local plans for the use of changeable message signs or other transportation related issues.

(D) To plan secure and reliable communications systems and protocols among public safety and transportation agencies or modify existing communications systems to support the notification of motorists about abductions of children.

(E) To plan and design improved systems for communicating with motorists, including the capability for issuing wide area alerts to motorists.

(F) To plan systems and protocols to facilitate the efficient issuance of child abduction notification and other key information to motorists during off-hours.

(G) To provide training and guidance to transportation authorities to facilitate appropriate use of changeable message signs and other traveler information systems for the notification of motorists about abductions of children.



(c) Implementation grants(1) In generalThe Secretary may make a grant to a State under this subsection for the implementation of a program for the use of changeable message signs or other motorist information systems to notify motorists about abductions of children. A State shall be eligible for a grant under this subsection if the Secretary determines that the State has developed a State program in accordance with subsection (b) of this section.


(2) Eligible activitiesA grant under this subsection may be used by a State to support the implementation of systems that use changeable message signs or other motorist information systems to notify motorists about abductions of children. Such support may include the purchase and installation of changeable message signs or other motorist information systems to notify motorists about abductions of children.



(d) Federal shareThe Federal share of the cost of any activities funded by a grant under this section may not exceed 80 percent.


(e) Distribution of grant amountsThe Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, distribute grants under this section equally among the States that apply for a grant under this section within the time period prescribed by the Secretary.


(f) AdministrationThe Secretary shall prescribe requirements, including application requirements, for the receipt of grants under this section.


(g) DefinitionIn this section, the term “State” means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.


(h) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2004. Such amounts shall remain available until expended.


(i) Study of State programs(1) StudyThe Secretary shall conduct a study to examine State barriers to the adoption and implementation of State programs for the use of communications systems along highways for alerts and other information for the recovery of abducted children.


(2) ReportNot later than 1 year after April 30, 2003, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress a report on the results of the study, together with any recommendations the Secretary determines appropriate.



(Pub. L. 108–21, title III, § 303, Apr. 30, 2003, 117 Stat. 662.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003, also known as the PROTECT Act, and not as part of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 which comprises this chapter.


