“Sec. 14. [Education.] (a)(1) Subsection (a) of section 103 of the National Defense Education Act of 1958, relating to definition of State, is amended by striking out ‘Hawaii,’ each time it appears therein.

“(2)(A) Paragraph (2), and subparagraph (C) of paragraph (3), of subsection (a) of section 302 of such Act, relating to allotments for science, mathematics, and foreign language instruction equipment, are each amended by striking out ‘continental United States’ each time it appears therein and inserting in lieu thereof ‘United States’.

“(B) Effective in the case of promulgations of allotment ratios made, under section 302 of such Act, after enactment of this Act and before satisfactory data are available from the Department of Commerce for a full year on the per capita income of Alaska, subparagraph B of such paragraph (3) is amended to read:“ ‘(B) The term “United States” means the continental United States (excluding Alaska and Hawaii)’.


“(C) Effective in the case of promulgations of allotment ratios made under such section 302 after such data for a full year are available from the Department of Commerce, subparagraph (B) of such paragraph (3) is amended to read:“ ‘(B) The term “United States” means the fifty States and the District of Columbia.’
“Promulgations of allotment ratios made under such section 302 after such data for a full year are available from the Department of Commerce, but before such data are available therefrom for a full three-year period, shall be based on such data for such one full year, or when such data are available for a two-year period, for such two years.



“(3) Section 1008 of such Act, relating to allotments to territories, is amended by striking out ‘Hawaii,’.


“(b)(1) Section 4 of the Act of March 10, 1924 (43 Stat. 18), extending the benefits of the Smith-Hughes vocational education law to Hawaii, is repealed.

“(2) The last sentence of section 2 of the Act of February 23, 1917 (39 Stat. 930), relating to allotments for salaries of teachers of agricultural subjects, is amended by striking out ‘$27,000’ and inserting in lieu thereof ‘$28,500’. The last sentence of section 4 of such Act, as amended, relating to allotments for teacher training, is amended by striking out ‘$98,500’ and inserting in lieu thereof ‘$105,200’.

“(3) Paragraph (1) of section 2 of the Vocational Education Act of 1946, relating to definition of States and Territories, is amended by striking out ‘the Territory of Hawaii,’.

“(4) Subsection (e) of section 210 and subsection (a) of section 307 of such Act, relating to definition of State are each amended by striking out ‘Hawaii,’.


“(c) Paragraph (13) of section 15 of the Act of September 23, 1950 (64 Stat. 967), as amended, relating to definition of State, is amended by striking out ‘Hawaii,’.

“(d)(1) The material in the parentheses in the first sentence of subsection (d) of section 3 of the Act of September 30, 1950, as amended, relating to determination of local contribution rate, is amended to read: ‘(other than a local educational agency in Puerto Rico, Wake Island, Guam, or the Virgin Islands, or in a State in which a substantial proportion of the land is in unorganized territory for which a State agency is the local educational agency, or in a State in which there is only one local educational agency)’.

“(2) The fourth sentence of such subsection is amended by striking out ‘in the continental United States (including Alaska)’ and inserting in lieu thereof ‘(other than Puerto Rico, Wake Island, Guam, or the Virgin Islands)’ and by striking out ‘continental United States’ in clause (ii) of such sentence and inserting in lieu thereof ‘United States (which for purposes of this sentence and the next sentence means the fifty States and the District of Columbia)’. The fifth sentence of such subsection is amended by striking out ‘continental’ before ‘United States’ each time it appears therein and by striking out ‘(including Alaska)’.

“(3) The last sentence of such subsection is amended by striking out ‘Hawaii,’ and by inserting after ‘for which a State agency is the local educational agency,’ the following: ‘or in any State in which there is only one local educational agency,’.

“(4) Paragraph (8) of section 9 of such Act, relating to definition of State, is amended by striking out ‘Hawaii,’.


“(e) Notwithstanding the last sentence of subsection (b) of section 5 of the Act entitled ‘An Act to provide for the admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union’, approved March 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 4; Public Law 86–3), there is hereby authorized to be appropriated to the State of Hawaii the sum of $6,000,000. Amounts appropriated under this subsection shall be held and considered to be granted to such State subject to those provisions of the Act entitled ‘An Act donating public lands to the several States and Territories which may provide colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanic arts’, approved July 2, 1862 (7 U.S.C. 301–308), applicable to the proceeds from the sale of land or land scrip.

