§ 11432. Grants for State and local activities for the education of homeless children and youths(a) General authorityThe Secretary is authorized to make grants to States in accordance with the provisions of this section to enable such States to carry out the activities described in subsections (d) through (g) of this section.


(b) ApplicationNo State may receive a grant under this section unless the State educational agency submits an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing or accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(c) Allocation and reservations(1) Allocation(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary is authorized to allot to each State an amount that bears the same ratio to the amount appropriated for such year under section 11435 of this title that remains after the Secretary reserves funds under paragraph (2) and uses funds to carry out section 11434(d) and (h) of this title, as the amount allocated under section 1122 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6332] to the State for that year bears to the total amount allocated under section 1122 of such Act to all States for that year, except that no State shall receive less than the greater of—(i) $150,000;

(ii) one-fourth of 1 percent of the amount appropriated under section 11435 of this title for that year; or

(iii) the amount such State received under this section for fiscal year 2001.


(B) If there are insufficient funds in a fiscal year to allot to each State the minimum amount under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall ratably reduce the allotments to all States based on the proportionate share that each State received under this subsection for the preceding fiscal year.


(2) Reservations(A) The Secretary is authorized to reserve 0.1 percent of the amount appropriated for each fiscal year under section 11435 of this title to be allocated by the Secretary among the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, according to their respective need for assistance under this part, as determined by the Secretary.

(B)(i) The Secretary shall transfer 1 percent of the amount appropriated for each fiscal year under section 11435 of this title to the Department of the Interior for programs for Indian students served by schools funded by the Secretary of the Interior, as determined under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), that are consistent with the purposes of the programs described in this part.

(ii) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior shall enter into an agreement, consistent with the requirements of this part, for the distribution and use of the funds described in clause (i) under terms that the Secretary determines best meet the purposes of the programs described in this part. Such agreement shall set forth the plans of the Secretary of the Interior for the use of the amounts transferred, including appropriate goals, objectives, and milestones.



(3) State definedFor purposes of this subsection, the term “State” does not include the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.



(d) ActivitiesGrants under this section shall be used for the following:(1) To carry out the policies set forth in section 11431 of this title in the State.

(2) To provide activities for, and services to, homeless children, including preschool-aged homeless children, and youths that enable such children and youths to enroll in, attend, and succeed in school, or, if appropriate, in preschool programs.

(3) To establish or designate an Office of Coordinator for Education of Homeless Children and Youths in the State educational agency in accordance with subsection (f) of this section.

(4) To prepare and carry out the State plan described in subsection (g) of this section.

(5) To develop and implement professional development programs for school personnel to heighten their awareness of, and capacity to respond to, specific problems in the education of homeless children and youths.


(e) State and local subgrants(1) Minimum disbursements by StatesFrom the sums made available each year to carry out this part, the State educational agency shall distribute not less than 75 percent in subgrants to local educational agencies for the purposes of carrying out section 11433 of this title, except that States funded at the minimum level set forth in subsection (c)(1) of this section shall distribute not less than 50 percent in subgrants to local educational agencies for the purposes of carrying out section 11433 of this title.


(2) Use by State educational agencyA State educational agency may use funds made available for State use under this part to conduct activities under subsection (f) of this section directly or through grants or contracts.


(3) Prohibition on segregating homeless students(A) In generalExcept as provided in subparagraph (B) and section 11433(a)(2)(B)(ii) of this title, in providing a free public education to a homeless child or youth, no State receiving funds under this part shall segregate such child or youth in a separate school, or in a separate program within a school, based on such child’s or youth’s status as homeless.


(B) ExceptionNotwithstanding subparagraph (A), paragraphs (1)(J)(i) and (3) of subsection (g) of this section, section 11433(a)(2) of this title, and any other provision of this part relating to the placement of homeless children or youths in schools, a State that has a separate school for homeless children or youths that was operated in fiscal year 2000 in a covered county shall be eligible to receive funds under this part for programs carried out in such school if—(i) the school meets the requirements of subparagraph (C);

(ii) any local educational agency serving a school that the homeless children and youths enrolled in the separate school are eligible to attend meets the requirements of subparagraph (E); and

(iii) the State is otherwise eligible to receive funds under this part.


(C) School requirementsFor the State to be eligible under subparagraph (B) to receive funds under this part, the school described in such subparagraph shall—(i) provide written notice, at the time any child or youth seeks enrollment in such school, and at least twice annually while the child or youth is enrolled in such school, to the parent or guardian of the child or youth (or, in the case of an unaccompanied youth, the youth) that—(I) shall be signed by the parent or guardian (or, in the case of an unaccompanied youth, the youth);

(II) sets forth the general rights provided under this part;

(III) specifically states—(aa) the choice of schools homeless children and youths are eligible to attend, as provided in subsection (g)(3)(A) of this section;

(bb) that no homeless child or youth is required to attend a separate school for homeless children or youths;

(cc) that homeless children and youths shall be provided comparable services described in subsection (g)(4) of this section, including transportation services, educational services, and meals through school meals programs; and

(dd) that homeless children and youths should not be stigmatized by school personnel; and


(IV) provides contact information for the local liaison for homeless children and youths and the State Coordinator for Education of Homeless Children and Youths;


(ii)(I) provide assistance to the parent or guardian of each homeless child or youth (or, in the case of an unaccompanied youth, the youth) to exercise the right to attend the parent’s or guardian’s (or youth’s) choice of schools, as provided in subsection (g)(3)(A) of this section; and

(II) coordinate with the local educational agency with jurisdiction for the school selected by the parent or guardian (or youth), to provide transportation and other necessary services;


(iii) ensure that the parent or guardian (or, in the case of an unaccompanied youth, the youth) shall receive the information required by this subparagraph in a manner and form understandable to such parent or guardian (or youth), including, if necessary and to the extent feasible, in the native language of such parent or guardian (or youth); and

(iv) demonstrate in the school’s application for funds under this part that such school—(I) is complying with clauses (i) and (ii); and

(II) is meeting (as of the date of submission of the application) the same Federal and State standards, regulations, and mandates as other public schools in the State (such as complying with sections 1111 and 1116 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6311, 6316] and providing a full range of education and related services, including services applicable to students with disabilities).



(D) School ineligibilityA separate school described in subparagraph (B) that fails to meet the standards, regulations, and mandates described in subparagraph (C)(iv)(II) shall not be eligible to receive funds under this part for programs carried out in such school after the first date of such failure.


(E) Local educational agency requirementsFor the State to be eligible to receive the funds described in subparagraph (B), the local educational agency described in subparagraph (B)(ii) shall—(i) implement a coordinated system for ensuring that homeless children and youths—(I) are advised of the choice of schools provided in subsection (g)(3)(A) of this section;

(II) are immediately enrolled, in accordance with subsection (g)(3)(C) of this section, in the school selected under subsection (g)(3)(A) of this section; and

(III) are promptly provided necessary services described in subsection (g)(4) of this section, including transportation, to allow homeless children and youths to exercise their choices of schools under subsection (g)(3)(A) of this section;


(ii) document that written notice has been provided—(I) in accordance with subparagraph (C)(i) for each child or youth enrolled in a separate school under subparagraph (B); and

(II) in accordance with subsection (g)(6)(A)(v) of this section;


(iii) prohibit schools within the agency’s jurisdiction from referring homeless children or youths to, or requiring homeless children and youths to enroll in or attend, a separate school described in subparagraph (B);

(iv) identify and remove any barriers that exist in schools within the agency’s jurisdiction that may have contributed to the creation or existence of separate schools described in subparagraph (B); and

(v) not use funds received under this part to establish—(I) new or additional separate schools for homeless children or youths; or

(II) new or additional sites for separate schools for homeless children or youths, other than the sites occupied by the schools described in subparagraph (B) in fiscal year 2000.



(F) Report(i) PreparationThe Secretary shall prepare a report on the separate schools and local educational agencies described in subparagraph (B) that receive funds under this part in accordance with this paragraph. The report shall contain, at a minimum, information on—(I) compliance with all requirements of this paragraph;

(II) barriers to school access in the school districts served by the local educational agencies; and

(III) the progress the separate schools are making in integrating homeless children and youths into the mainstream school environment, including the average length of student enrollment in such schools.


(ii) Compliance with information requestsFor purposes of enabling the Secretary to prepare the report, the separate schools and local educational agencies shall cooperate with the Secretary and the State Coordinator for Education of Homeless Children and Youths established in the State under subsection (d)(3) of this section, and shall comply with any requests for information by the Secretary and State Coordinator for such State.


(iii) SubmissionNot later than 2 years after January 8, 2002, the Secretary shall submit the report described in clause (i) to—(I) the President;

(II) the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives; and

(III) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.



(G) DefinitionFor purposes of this paragraph, the term “covered county” means—(i) San Joaquin County, California;

(ii) Orange County, California;

(iii) San Diego County, California; and

(iv) Maricopa County, Arizona.




(f) Functions of the Office of CoordinatorThe Coordinator for Education of Homeless Children and Youths established in each State shall—(1) gather reliable, valid, and comprehensive information on the nature and extent of the problems homeless children and youths have in gaining access to public preschool programs and to public elementary schools and secondary schools, the difficulties in identifying the special needs of such children and youths, any progress made by the State educational agency and local educational agencies in the State in addressing such problems and difficulties, and the success of the programs under this part in allowing homeless children and youths to enroll in, attend, and succeed in, school;

(2) develop and carry out the State plan described in subsection (g) of this section;

(3) collect and transmit to the Secretary, at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may require, a report containing such information as the Secretary determines is necessary to assess the educational needs of homeless children and youths within the State;

(4) facilitate coordination between the State educational agency, the State social services agency, and other agencies (including agencies providing mental health services) to provide services to homeless children, including preschool-aged homeless children, and youths, and to families of such children and youths;

(5) in order to improve the provision of comprehensive education and related services to homeless children and youths and their families, coordinate and collaborate with—(A) educators, including child development and preschool program personnel;

(B) providers of services to homeless and runaway children and youths and homeless families (including domestic violence agencies, shelter operators, transitional housing facilities, runaway and homeless youth centers, and transitional living programs for homeless youths);

(C) local educational agency liaisons designated under subsection (g)(1)(J)(ii) of this section for homeless children and youths; and

(D) community organizations and groups representing homeless children and youths and their families; and


(6) provide technical assistance to local educational agencies in coordination with local educational agency liaisons designated under subsection (g)(1)(J)(ii) of this section, to ensure that local educational agencies comply with the requirements of subsection (e)(3) of this section and paragraphs (3) through (7) of subsection (g) of this section.


(g) State plan(1) In generalEach State shall submit to the Secretary a plan to provide for the education of homeless children and youths within the State. Such plan shall include the following:(A) A description of how such children and youths are (or will be) given the opportunity to meet the same challenging State academic achievement standards all students are expected to meet.

(B) A description of the procedures the State educational agency will use to identify such children and youths in the State and to assess their special needs.

(C) A description of procedures for the prompt resolution of disputes regarding the educational placement of homeless children and youths.

(D) A description of programs for school personnel (including principals, attendance officers, teachers, enrollment personnel, and pupil services personnel) to heighten the awareness of such personnel of the specific needs of runaway and homeless youths.

(E) A description of procedures that ensure that homeless children and youths who meet the relevant eligibility criteria are able to participate in Federal, State, or local food programs.

(F) A description of procedures that ensure that—(i) homeless children have equal access to the same public preschool programs, administered by the State agency, as provided to other children in the State;

(ii) homeless youths and youths separated from the public schools are identified and accorded equal access to appropriate secondary education and support services; and

(iii) homeless children and youths who meet the relevant eligibility criteria are able to participate in Federal, State, or local before- and after-school care programs.


(G) Strategies to address problems identified in the report provided to the Secretary under subsection (f)(3) of this section.

(H) Strategies to address other problems with respect to the education of homeless children and youths, including problems resulting from enrollment delays that are caused by—(i) immunization and medical records requirements;

(ii) residency requirements;

(iii) lack of birth certificates, school records, or other documentation;

(iv) guardianship issues; or

(v) uniform or dress code requirements.


(I) A demonstration that the State educational agency and local educational agencies in the State have developed, and shall review and revise, policies to remove barriers to the enrollment and retention of homeless children and youths in schools in the State.

(J) Assurances that—(i) the State educational agency and local educational agencies in the State will adopt policies and practices to ensure that homeless children and youths are not stigmatized or segregated on the basis of their status as homeless;

(ii) local educational agencies will designate an appropriate staff person, who may also be a coordinator for other Federal programs, as a local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youths, to carry out the duties described in paragraph (6)(A); and

(iii) the State and its local educational agencies will adopt policies and practices to ensure that transportation is provided, at the request of the parent or guardian (or in the case of an unaccompanied youth, the liaison), to and from the school of origin, as determined in paragraph (3)(A), in accordance with the following, as applicable:(I) If the homeless child or youth continues to live in the area served by the local educational agency in which the school of origin is located, the child’s or youth’s transportation to and from the school of origin shall be provided or arranged by the local educational agency in which the school of origin is located.

(II) If the homeless child’s or youth’s living arrangements in the area served by the local educational agency of origin terminate and the child or youth, though continuing his or her education in the school of origin, begins living in an area served by another local educational agency, the local educational agency of origin and the local educational agency in which the homeless child or youth is living shall agree upon a method to apportion the responsibility and costs for providing the child with transportation to and from the school of origin. If the local educational agencies are unable to agree upon such method, the responsibility and costs for transportation shall be shared equally.




(2) Compliance(A) In generalEach plan adopted under this subsection shall also describe how the State will ensure that local educational agencies in the State will comply with the requirements of paragraphs (3) through (7).


(B) CoordinationSuch plan shall indicate what technical assistance the State will furnish to local educational agencies and how compliance efforts will be coordinated with the local educational agency liaisons designated under paragraph (1)(J)(ii).



(3) Local educational agency requirements(A) In generalThe local educational agency serving each child or youth to be assisted under this part shall, according to the child’s or youth’s best interest—(i) continue the child’s or youth’s education in the school of origin for the duration of homelessness—(I) in any case in which a family becomes homeless between academic years or during an academic year; or

(II) for the remainder of the academic year, if the child or youth becomes permanently housed during an academic year; or


(ii) enroll the child or youth in any public school that nonhomeless students who live in the attendance area in which the child or youth is actually living are eligible to attend.


(B) Best interestIn determining the best interest of the child or youth under subparagraph (A), the local educational agency shall—(i) to the extent feasible, keep a homeless child or youth in the school of origin, except when doing so is contrary to the wishes of the child’s or youth’s parent or guardian;

(ii) provide a written explanation, including a statement regarding the right to appeal under subparagraph (E), to the homeless child’s or youth’s parent or guardian, if the local educational agency sends such child or youth to a school other than the school of origin or a school requested by the parent or guardian; and

(iii) in the case of an unaccompanied youth, ensure that the homeless liaison designated under paragraph (1)(J)(ii) assists in placement or enrollment decisions under this subparagraph, considers the views of such unaccompanied youth, and provides notice to such youth of the right to appeal under subparagraph (E).


(C) Enrollment(i) The school selected in accordance with this paragraph shall immediately enroll the homeless child or youth, even if the child or youth is unable to produce records normally required for enrollment, such as previous academic records, medical records, proof of residency, or other documentation.

(ii) The enrolling school shall immediately contact the school last attended by the child or youth to obtain relevant academic and other records.

(iii) If the child or youth needs to obtain immunizations, or immunization or medical records, the enrolling school shall immediately refer the parent or guardian of the child or youth to the local educational agency liaison designated under paragraph (1)(J)(ii), who shall assist in obtaining necessary immunizations, or immunization or medical records, in accordance with subparagraph (D).


(D) RecordsAny record ordinarily kept by the school, including immunization or medical records, academic records, birth certificates, guardianship records, and evaluations for special services or programs, regarding each homeless child or youth shall be maintained—(i) so that the records are available, in a timely fashion, when a child or youth enters a new school or school district; and

(ii) in a manner consistent with section 1232g of title 20.


(E) Enrollment disputesIf a dispute arises over school selection or enrollment in a school—(i) the child or youth shall be immediately admitted to the school in which enrollment is sought, pending resolution of the dispute;

(ii) the parent or guardian of the child or youth shall be provided with a written explanation of the school’s decision regarding school selection or enrollment, including the rights of the parent, guardian, or youth to appeal the decision;

(iii) the child, youth, parent, or guardian shall be referred to the local educational agency liaison designated under paragraph (1)(J)(ii), who shall carry out the dispute resolution process as described in paragraph (1)(C) as expeditiously as possible after receiving notice of the dispute; and

(iv) in the case of an unaccompanied youth, the homeless liaison shall ensure that the youth is immediately enrolled in school pending resolution of the dispute.


(F) Placement choiceThe choice regarding placement shall be made regardless of whether the child or youth lives with the homeless parents or has been temporarily placed elsewhere.


(G) School of origin definedIn this paragraph, the term “school of origin” means the school that the child or youth attended when permanently housed or the school in which the child or youth was last enrolled.


(H) Contact informationNothing in this part shall prohibit a local educational agency from requiring a parent or guardian of a homeless child to submit contact information.



(4) Comparable servicesEach homeless child or youth to be assisted under this part shall be provided services comparable to services offered to other students in the school selected under paragraph (3), including the following:(A) Transportation services.

(B) Educational services for which the child or youth meets the eligibility criteria, such as services provided under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.] or similar State or local programs, educational programs for children with disabilities, and educational programs for students with limited English proficiency.

(C) Programs in vocational and technical education.

(D) Programs for gifted and talented students.

(E) School nutrition programs.


(5) Coordination(A) In generalEach local educational agency serving homeless children and youths that receives assistance under this part shall coordinate—(i) the provision of services under this part with local social services agencies and other agencies or programs providing services to homeless children and youths and their families, including services and programs funded under the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701 et seq.); and

(ii) with other local educational agencies on interdistrict issues, such as transportation or transfer of school records.


(B) Housing assistanceIf applicable, each State educational agency and local educational agency that receives assistance under this part shall coordinate with State and local housing agencies responsible for developing the comprehensive housing affordability strategy described in section 12705 of this title to minimize educational disruption for children and youths who become homeless.


(C) Coordination purposeThe coordination required under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be designed to—(i) ensure that homeless children and youths have access and reasonable proximity to available education and related support services; and

(ii) raise the awareness of school personnel and service providers of the effects of short-term stays in a shelter and other challenges associated with homelessness.



(6) Local educational agency liaison(A) DutiesEach local educational agency liaison for homeless children and youths, designated under paragraph (1)(J)(ii), shall ensure that—(i) homeless children and youths are identified by school personnel and through coordination activities with other entities and agencies;

(ii) homeless children and youths enroll in, and have a full and equal opportunity to succeed in, schools of that local educational agency;

(iii) homeless families, children, and youths receive educational services for which such families, children, and youths are eligible, including Head Start and Even Start programs and preschool programs administered by the local educational agency, and referrals to health care services, dental services, mental health services, and other appropriate services;

(iv) the parents or guardians of homeless children and youths are informed of the educational and related opportunities available to their children and are provided with meaningful opportunities to participate in the education of their children;

(v) public notice of the educational rights of homeless children and youths is disseminated where such children and youths receive services under this chapter, such as schools, family shelters, and soup kitchens;

(vi) enrollment disputes are mediated in accordance with paragraph (3)(E); and

(vii) the parent or guardian of a homeless child or youth, and any unaccompanied youth, is fully informed of all transportation services, including transportation to the school of origin, as described in paragraph (1)(J)(iii), and is assisted in accessing transportation to the school that is selected under paragraph (3)(A).


(B) NoticeState coordinators established under subsection (d)(3) of this section and local educational agencies shall inform school personnel, service providers, and advocates working with homeless families of the duties of the local educational agency liaisons.


(C) Local and State coordinationLocal educational agency liaisons for homeless children and youths shall, as a part of their duties, coordinate and collaborate with State coordinators and community and school personnel responsible for the provision of education and related services to homeless children and youths.



(7) Review and revisions(A) In generalEach State educational agency and local educational agency that receives assistance under this part shall review and revise any policies that may act as barriers to the enrollment of homeless children and youths in schools that are selected under paragraph (3).


(B) ConsiderationIn reviewing and revising such policies, consideration shall be given to issues concerning transportation, immunization, residency, birth certificates, school records and other documentation, and guardianship.


(C) Special attentionSpecial attention shall be given to ensuring the enrollment and attendance of homeless children and youths who are not currently attending school.




(h) Special rule for emergency assistance(1) Emergency assistance(A) Reservation of amountsSubject to paragraph (4) and notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, the Secretary shall use funds appropriated under section 11435 of this title for fiscal year 2009, but not to exceed $30,000,000, for the purposes of providing emergency assistance through grants.


(B) General authorityThe Secretary shall use the funds to make grants to State educational agencies under paragraph (2), to enable the agencies to make subgrants to local educational agencies under paragraph (3), to provide activities described in section 11433(d) of this title for individuals referred to in subparagraph (C).


(C) Eligible individualsFunds made available under this subsection shall be used to provide such activities for eligible individuals, consisting of homeless children and youths, and their families, who have become homeless due to home foreclosure, including children and youths, and their families, who became homeless when lenders foreclosed on properties rented by the families.



(2) Grants to State educational agencies(A) DisbursementThe Secretary shall make grants with funds provided under paragraph (1)(A) to State educational agencies based on need, consistent with the number of eligible individuals described in paragraph (1)(C) in the States involved, as determined by the Secretary.


(B) AssuranceTo be eligible to receive a grant under this paragraph, a State educational agency shall provide an assurance to the Secretary that the State educational agency, and each local educational agency receiving a subgrant from the State educational agency under this subsection shall ensure that the activities carried out under this subsection are consistent with the activities described in section 11433(d) of this title.



(3) Subgrants to local educational agenciesA State educational agency that receives a grant under paragraph (2) shall use the funds made available through the grant to make subgrants to local educational agencies. The State educational agency shall make the subgrants to local educational agencies based on need, consistent with the number of eligible individuals described in paragraph (1)(C) in the areas served by the local educational agencies, as determined by the State educational agency.


(4) RestrictionThe Secretary—(A) shall determine the amount (if any) by which the funds appropriated under section 11435 of this title for fiscal year 2009 exceed $70,000,000; and

(B) may only use funds from that amount to carry out this subsection.



(Pub. L. 100–77, title VII, § 722, as added Pub. L. 107–110, title X, § 1032, Jan. 8, 2002, 115 Stat. 1990; amended Pub. L. 110–289, div. B, title IX, § 2901(b), July 30, 2008, 122 Stat. 2875.)


References in TextThe Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(B)(i), is Pub. L. 93–638, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2203, as amended, which is classified principally to subchapter II (§ 450 et seq.) of chapter 14 of Title 25, Indians. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 450 of Title 25 and Tables.
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (g)(4)(B), is Pub. L. 89–10, Apr. 11, 1965, 79 Stat. 27, as amended. Title I of the Act is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 6301 et seq.) of chapter 70 of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6301 of Title 20 and Tables.
The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act, referred to in subsec. (g)(5)(A)(i), is title III of Pub. L. 93–415, Sept. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 1129, which is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 5701 et seq.) of chapter 72 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 5601 of this title and Tables.
This chapter, referred to in subsec. (g)(6)(A)(v), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 100–77, July 22, 1987, 101 Stat. 482, as amended, known as the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 11301 of this title and Tables.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 11432, Pub. L. 100–77, title VII, § 722, as added Pub. L. 103–382, title III, § 323, Oct. 20, 1994, 108 Stat. 3957, related to grants for State and local activities for education of homeless children and youth, prior to the general amendment of this part by Pub. L. 107–110.
Another prior section 11432, Pub. L. 100–77, title VII, § 722, July 22, 1987, 101 Stat. 525; Pub. L. 100–628, title VII, § 702(a), Nov. 7, 1988, 102 Stat. 3245; Pub. L. 101–645, title VI, § 612(b), Nov. 29, 1990, 104 Stat. 4735, related to grants for State and local activities for education of homeless children and youth, prior to the general amendment of this part by Pub. L. 103–382.

Amendments2008—Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 110–289 added subsec. (h).


