§ 290bb–37. Grants for emergency mental health centers(a) Program authorizedThe Secretary shall award grants to States, political subdivisions of States, Indian tribes, and tribal organizations to support the designation of hospitals and health centers as Emergency Mental Health Centers.


(b) Health centerIn this section, the term “health center” has the meaning given such term in section 254b of this title, and includes community health centers and community mental health centers.


(c) Distribution of awardsThe Secretary shall ensure that such grants awarded under subsection (a) of this section are equitably distributed among the geographical regions of the United States, between urban and rural populations, and between different settings of care including health centers, mental health centers, hospitals, and other psychiatric units or facilities.


(d) ApplicationA State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, or tribal organization that desires a grant under subsection (a) of this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including a plan for the rigorous evaluation of activities carried out with funds received under this section.


(e) Use of funds(1) In generalA State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, or tribal organization receiving a grant under subsection (a) of this section shall use funds from such grant to establish or designate hospitals and health centers as Emergency Mental Health Centers.


(2) Emergency mental health centersSuch emergency mental health centers described in paragraph (1)—(A) shall—(i) serve as a central receiving point in the community for individuals who may be in need of emergency mental health services;

(ii) purchase, if needed, any equipment necessary to evaluate, diagnose and stabilize an individual with a mental illness;

(iii) provide training, if needed, to the medical personnel staffing the Emergency Mental Health Center to evaluate, diagnose, stabilize, and treat an individual with a mental illness; and

(iv) provide any treatment that is necessary for an individual with a mental illness or a referral for such individual to another facility where such treatment may be received; and


(B) may establish and train a mobile crisis intervention team to respond to mental health emergencies within the community.



(f) EvaluationA State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, or tribal organization that receives a grant under subsection (a) of this section shall prepare and submit an evaluation to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require, including an evaluation of activities carried out with funds received under this section and a process and outcomes evaluation.


(g) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2001 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2002 through 2003.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 520F, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXII, § 3209, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1200.)
