§ 17281. National media campaign(a) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”), shall develop and conduct a national media campaign—(1) to increase energy efficiency throughout the economy of the United States during the 10-year period beginning on December 19, 2007;

(2) to promote the national security benefits associated with increased energy efficiency; and

(3) to decrease oil consumption in the United States during the 10-year period beginning on December 19, 2007.


(b) Contract with entityThe Secretary shall carry out subsection (a) directly or through—(1) competitively bid contracts with 1 or more nationally recognized media firms for the development and distribution of monthly television, radio, and newspaper public service announcements; or

(2) collective agreements with 1 or more nationally recognized institutes, businesses, or nonprofit organizations for the funding, development, and distribution of monthly television, radio, and newspaper public service announcements.


(c) Use of funds(1) In generalAmounts made available to carry out this section shall be used for—(A) advertising costs, including—(i) the purchase of media time and space;

(ii) creative and talent costs;

(iii) testing and evaluation of advertising; and

(iv) evaluation of the effectiveness of the media campaign; and


(B) administrative costs, including operational and management expenses.


(2) LimitationsIn carrying out this section, the Secretary shall allocate not less than 85 percent of funds made available under subsection (e) for each fiscal year for the advertising functions specified under paragraph (1)(A).



(d) ReportsThe Secretary shall annually submit to Congress a report that describes—(1) the strategy of the national media campaign and whether specific objectives of the campaign were accomplished, including—(A) determinations concerning the rate of change of energy consumption, in both absolute and per capita terms; and

(B) an evaluation that enables consideration of whether the media campaign contributed to reduction of energy consumption;


(2) steps taken to ensure that the national media campaign operates in an effective and efficient manner consistent with the overall strategy and focus of the campaign;

(3) plans to purchase advertising time and space;

(4) policies and practices implemented to ensure that Federal funds are used responsibly to purchase advertising time and space and eliminate the potential for waste, fraud, and abuse; and

(5) all contracts or cooperative agreements entered into with a corporation, partnership, or individual working on behalf of the national media campaign.


(e) Authorization of appropriations(1) In generalThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.


(2) Decreased oil consumptionThe Secretary shall use not less than 50 percent of the amount that is made available under this section for each fiscal year to develop and conduct a national media campaign to decrease oil consumption in the United States over the next decade.



(Pub. L. 110–140, title VIII, § 801, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1716.)
