§ 1701. Cooperation with the Administrator
On the request of the Administrator, each executive agency shall—(1) make its services, personnel, and facilities available to the Office of Federal Procurement Policy to the greatest practicable extent for the performance of functions under this division; and

(2) except when prohibited by law, furnish to the Administrator, and give the Administrator access to, all information and records in its possession that the Administrator may determine to be necessary for the performance of the functions of the Office.

(Pub. L. 111–350, § 3, Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3700.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


170141:406.Pub. L. 93–400, § 7, Aug. 30, 1974, 88 Stat. 798.




Ex. Ord. No. 12073. Federal Procurement in Labor Surplus Areas
Ex. Ord. No. 12073, Aug. 16, 1978, 43 F.R. 36873, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution of the United States of America, and in order to strengthen the economic base of our Nation, it is hereby ordered as follows:

1–1. Procurements in Labor Surplus Areas1–101. Executive agencies shall emphasize procurement set-asides in labor surplus areas in order to strengthen our Nation’s economy.
1–102. Labor surplus area procurements shall be consistent with this Order and, to the extent funds are available, the priorities of Section 15 of the Small Business Act, as amended by Public Law 95–89 (15 U.S.C. 644).

1–2. Administrator of General Services1–201. The Administrator shall coordinate with and advise State and local officials with regard to Federal efforts to encourage procurements in labor surplus areas with the aim of fostering economic development in labor surplus areas.
1–202. The Administrator shall establish specific labor surplus area procurement targets for Executive agencies in consultation with the heads of those agencies.
1–203. In cooperation with the heads of Executive agencies, the Administrator shall encourage the use of set-asides or other appropriate methods for meeting procurement targets in labor surplus areas.
1–204. The Administrator shall report every six months to the President on the progress of the agencies in achieving the procurement targets.

1–3. Agency Responsibilities1–301. The Secretary of Labor shall classify and designate labor markets which are labor surplus areas. The Secretary shall provide labor market data to the heads of agencies and State and local officials in order to promote the development of business opportunities in labor surplus areas.
1–302. The heads of Executive agencies shall cooperate with the Administrator in carrying out his responsibilities for labor surplus area programs and shall provide the information necessary for setting procurement targets and recording achievement. They shall keep the Administrator informed of plans and programs which affect labor surplus procurements, with particular attention to opportunities for minority firms.
1–303. In accord with Section 6 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 405), the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy shall be responsible for the overall direction and oversight of the policies affecting procurement programs for labor surplus areas.

Jimmy Carter.



Ex. Ord. No. 12931. Federal Procurement Reform
Ex. Ord. No. 12931, Oct. 13, 1994, 59 F.R. 52387, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to ensure effective and efficient spending of public funds through fundamental reforms in Government procurement, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. To make procurement more effective in support of mission accomplishment and consistent with recommendations of the National Performance Review, heads of executive agencies engaged in the procurement of supplies and services shall:
(a) Review agency procurement rules, reporting requirements, contractual requirements, certification procedures, and other administrative procedures over and above those required by statute, and, where practicable, replace them with guiding principles that encourage and reward innovation;
(b) Review existing and planned agency programs to assure that such programs meet agency mission needs;
(c) Ensure that procurement organizations focus on measurable results and on increased attention to understanding and meeting customer needs;
(d) Increase the use of commercially available items where practicable, place more emphasis on past contractor performance, and promote best value rather than simply low cost in selecting sources for supplies and services;
(e) Ensure that simplified acquisition procedures are used, to the maximum extent practicable, for procurements under the simplified acquisition threshold in order to reduce administrative burdens and more effectively support the accomplishment of agency missions;
(f) Expand the use of the Government purchase card by the agency and take maximum advantage of the micro-purchase authority provided in the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994 [Pub. L. 103–355, see Short Title of 1994 Act note set out under section 101 of this title] by delegating the authority, to the maximum extent practicable, to the offices that will be using the supplies or services to be purchased;
(g) Establish clear lines of contracting authority and accountability;
(h) Establish career education programs for procurement professionals, including requirements for successful completion of educational requirements or mandatory training for entry level positions and for promotion to higher level positions, in order to ensure a highly qualified procurement work force;
(i) Designate a Procurement Executive with agency-wide responsibility to oversee development of procurement goals, guidelines, and innovation, measure and evaluate procurement office performance against stated goals, enhance career development of the procurement work force, and advise the agency heads whether goals are being achieved; and
(j) Review existing and planned information technology acquisitions and contracts to ensure that the agency receives the best value with regard to price and technology, and consider alternatives in cases where best value is not being obtained.
Sec. 2. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management, in consultation with the heads of executive agencies, shall ensure that personnel policies and classification standards meet the needs of executive agencies for a professional procurement work force.
Sec. 3. The Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy, after consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall work jointly with the heads of executive agencies to provide broad policy guidance and overall leadership necessary to achieve procurement reform, including, but not limited to:
(a) Coordinating Government-wide efforts;
(b) Assisting executive agencies in streamlining guidance for procurement processes;
(c) Identifying desirable Government-wide procurement system criteria; and
(d) Identifying major inconsistencies in law and policies relating to procurement that impose unnecessary burdens on the private sector and Federal procurement officials, and, following coordination with executive agencies, submitting necessary legislative initiatives to the Office of Management and Budget for the resolution of such inconsistencies.
Sec. 4. Executive Order No. 12352 is revoked.

William J. Clinton.



