§ 521. Policies and methods
Subject to section 523 of this title, in order to minimize expenditures for property, the Administrator of General Services shall—(1) prescribe policies and methods to promote the maximum use of excess property by executive agencies; and

(2) provide for the transfer of excess property—(A) among federal agencies; and

(B) to the organizations specified in section 321(c)(2) of this title.


(Pub. L. 107–217, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1083.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


52140:483(a)(1) (1st sentence).June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title II, § 202(a)(1) (1st sentence), 63 Stat. 384; July 12, 1952, ch. 703, § 1(f), 66 Stat. 593; Pub. L. 93–599, (1), Jan. 2, 1975, 88 Stat. 1954.


The words “the provisions of” are omitted as unnecessary.

Opportunity for the Government of Guam To Acquire Excess Real Property in GuamPub. L. 106–504, § 1, Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2309, as amended by Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title X, § 1056(a)(6), Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3439, provided that:
“(a) Transfer of Excess Real Property.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (d), before screening excess real property located on Guam for further Federal utilization under section 202 [now 40 U.S.C. 521 et seq.] of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.) [now 40 U.S.C. 101 et seq.] (hereinafter the ‘Property Act’), the Administrator shall notify the Government of Guam that the property is available for transfer pursuant to this section.

“(2) If the Government of Guam, within 180 days after receiving notification under paragraph (1), notifies the Administrator that the Government of Guam intends to acquire the property under this section, the Administrator shall transfer such property in accordance with subsection (b). Otherwise, the property shall be screened for further Federal use and then, if there is no other Federal use, shall be disposed of in accordance with the Property Act.


“(b) Conditions of Transfer.—(1) Any transfer of excess real property to the Government of Guam may be only for a public purpose and shall be without further consideration.

“(2) All transfers of excess real property to the Government of Guam shall be subject to such restrictive covenants as the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, in the case of property reported excess by a military department, determines to be necessary to ensure that: (A) the use of the property is compatible with continued military activities on Guam; (B) the use of the property is consistent with the environmental condition of the property; (C) access is available to the United States to conduct any additional environmental remediation or monitoring that may be required; (D) the property is used only for a public purpose and can not be converted to any other use; and (E) to the extent that facilities on the property have been occupied and used by another Federal agency for a minimum of 2 years, that the transfer to the Government of Guam is subject to the terms and conditions for such use and occupancy.

“(3) All transfers of excess real property to the Government of Guam are subject to all otherwise applicable Federal laws, except section 2696 of title 10, United States Code, or section 501 of Public Law 100–77 (42 U.S.C. 11411).


“(c) Definitions.—For the purposes of this section:“(1) The term ‘Administrator’ means—“(A) the Administrator of General Services; or

“(B) the head of any Federal agency with the authority to dispose of excess real property on Guam.


“(2) The term ‘base closure law’ has the meaning given such term in section 101(a)(17) of title 10, United States Code.

“(3) The term ‘excess real property’ means excess property (as that term is defined in section 3 of the Property Act [now 40 U.S.C. 102]) that is real property and was acquired by the United States prior to the enactment of this section [Nov. 13, 2000].

“(4) The term ‘Guam National Wildlife Refuge’ includes those lands within the refuge overlay under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, identified as DoD lands in figure 3, on page 74, and as submerged lands in figure 7, on page 78 of the ‘Final Environmental Assessment for the Proposed Guam National Wildlife Refuge, Territory of Guam, July 1993’ to the extent that the Federal Government holds title to such lands.

“(5) The term ‘public purpose’ means those public benefit purposes for which the United States may dispose of property pursuant to section 203 of the Property Act [now 40 U.S.C. 541 et seq.], as implemented by the Federal Property Management Regulations (41 CFR 101–47) or the specific public benefit uses set forth in section 3(c) of the Guam Excess Lands Act (Public Law 103–339; 108 Stat. 3116), except that such definition shall not include the transfer of land to an individual or entity for private use other than on a nondiscriminatory basis.


“(d) Exemptions.—Notwithstanding that such property may be excess real property, the provisions of this section shall not apply—“(1) to real property on Guam that is declared excess by the Department of Defense for the purpose of transferring that property to the Coast Guard;

“(2) to real property on Guam that is located within the Guam National Wildlife Refuge, which shall be transferred according to the following procedure:“(A) The Administrator shall notify the Government of Guam and the Fish and Wildlife Service that such property has been declared excess. The Government of Guam and the Fish and Wildlife Service shall have 180 days to engage in discussions toward an agreement providing for the future ownership and management of such real property.

“(B) If the parties reach an agreement under subparagraph (A) within 180 days after notification of the declaration of excess, the real property shall be transferred and managed in accordance with such agreement: Provided, That such agreement shall be transmitted to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the appropriate committees of the United States House of Representatives not less than 60 days prior to such transfer and any such transfer shall be subject to the other provisions of this section.

“(C) If the parties do not reach an agreement under subparagraph (A) within 180 days after notification of the declaration of excess, the Administrator shall provide a report to Congress on the status of the discussions, together with his recommendations on the likelihood of resolution of differences and the comments of the Fish and Wildlife Service and the Government of Guam. If the subject property is under the jurisdiction of a military department, the military department may transfer administrative control over the property to the General Services Administration subject to any terms and conditions applicable to such property. In the event of such a transfer by a military department to the General Services Administration, the Department of the Interior shall be responsible for all reasonable costs associated with the custody, accountability and control of such property until final disposition.

“(D) If the parties come to agreement prior to congressional action, the real property shall be transferred and managed in accordance with such agreement: Provided, That such agreement shall be transmitted to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the appropriate committees of the United States House of Representatives not less than 60 days prior to such transfer and any such transfer shall be subject to the other provisions of this section.

“(E) Absent an agreement on the future ownership and use of the property, such property may not be transferred to another Federal agency or out of Federal ownership except pursuant to an Act of Congress specifically identifying such property;


“(3) to real property described in the Guam Excess Lands Act (Public Law 103–339; 108 Stat. 3116) which shall be disposed of in accordance with such Act;

“(4) to real property on Guam that is declared excess as a result of a base closure law; or

“(5) to facilities on Guam declared excess by the managing Federal agency for the purpose of transferring the facility to a Federal agency that has occupied the facility for a minimum of 2 years when the facility is declared excess together with the minimum land or interest therein necessary to support the facility.


“(e) Dual Classification Property.—If a parcel of real property on Guam that is declared excess as a result of a base closure law also falls within the boundary of the Guam National Wildlife Refuge, such parcel of property shall be disposed of in accordance with the base closure law.

“(f) Authority To Issue Regulations.—The Administrator of General Services, after consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Interior, may issue such regulations as he deems necessary to carry out this section.”





