§ 242s. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Office of Women’s Health(a) EstablishmentThere is established within the Office of the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, an office to be known as the Office of Women’s Health (referred to in this section as the “Office”). The Office shall be headed by a director who shall be appointed by the Director of such Centers.


(b) PurposeThe Director of the Office shall—(1) report to the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on the current level of the Centers’ activity regarding women’s health conditions across, where appropriate, age, biological, and sociocultural contexts, in all aspects of the Centers’ work, including prevention programs, public and professional education, services, and treatment;

(2) establish short-range and long-range goals and objectives within the Centers for women’s health and, as relevant and appropriate, coordinate with other appropriate offices on activities within the Centers that relate to prevention, research, education and training, service delivery, and policy development, for issues of particular concern to women;

(3) identify projects in women’s health that should be conducted or supported by the Centers;

(4) consult with health professionals, nongovernmental organizations, consumer organizations, women’s health professionals, and other individuals and groups, as appropriate, on the policy of the Centers with regard to women; and

(5) serve as a member of the Department of Health and Human Services Coordinating Committee on Women’s Health (established under section 237a(b)(4) of this title).


(c) DefinitionAs used in this section, the term “women’s health conditions”, with respect to women of all age, ethnic, and racial groups, means diseases, disorders, and conditions—(1) unique to, significantly more serious for, or significantly more prevalent in women; and

(2) for which the factors of medical risk or type of medical intervention are different for women, or for which there is reasonable evidence that indicates that such factors or types may be different for women.


(d) Authorization of appropriationsFor the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2014.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 310A, as added Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3509(b), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 533.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 310A of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 226 and transferred to section 235 of this title.


