§ 1437bbb–3. Applicability of requirements under programs for covered housing assistance(a) In generalIn each fiscal year of the demonstration program under this subchapter, amounts made available to a participating jurisdiction under the demonstration program shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as such amounts would be subject to if made available under the provisions of this chapter pursuant to which covered housing assistance is otherwise made available under this chapter to the public housing agency for the jurisdiction, except that—(1) the Secretary may waive any such term or condition identified by the jurisdiction to the extent that the Secretary determines such action to be appropriate to carry out the purposes of the demonstration program under this subchapter; and

(2) the participating jurisdiction may combine the amounts made available and use the amounts for any activity eligible under the programs under sections 1437f and 1437g of this title.


(b) Number of families assistedIn carrying out the demonstration program under this subchapter, each participating jurisdiction shall assist substantially the same total number of eligible low-income families as would have otherwise been served by the public housing agency for the jurisdiction had the jurisdiction not participated in the demonstration program under this subchapter.


(c) Protection of recipientsThis subchapter may not be construed to authorize the termination of assistance to any recipient receiving assistance under this chapter before October 21, 1998, as a result of the implementation of the demonstration program under this subchapter.


(d) Effect on ability to compete for other programsThis subchapter may not be construed to affect the ability of any applying or participating jurisdiction (or a public housing agency for any such jurisdiction) to compete or otherwise apply for or receive assistance under any other housing assistance program administered by the Secretary.


(Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 896, title IV, § 404, as added Pub. L. 105–276, title V, § 561, Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2619.)
