§ 280i. Developmental disabilities surveillance and research program(a) Autism spectrum disorder and other developmental disabilities(1) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may award grants or cooperative agreements to eligible entities for the collection, analysis, and reporting of State epidemiological data for children and adults on autism spectrum disorder and other developmental disabilities. An eligible entity shall assist with the development and coordination of State autism spectrum disorder and other developmental disability surveillance efforts within a region. In making such awards, the Secretary may provide direct technical assistance in lieu of cash.


(2) Data standardsIn submitting epidemiological data to the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (1), an eligible entity shall report data according to guidelines prescribed by the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, after consultation with relevant State and local public health officials, private sector developmental disability researchers, and advocates for individuals with autism spectrum disorder or other developmental disabilities.


(3) EligibilityTo be eligible to receive an award under paragraph (1), an entity shall be a public or nonprofit private entity (including a health department of a State or a political subdivision of a State, a university, or any other educational institution), and submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.



(b) Centers of excellence in autism spectrum disorder epidemiology(1) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall, subject to the availability of appropriations, award grants or cooperative agreements for the establishment or support of regional centers of excellence in autism spectrum disorder and other developmental disabilities epidemiology for the purpose of collecting and analyzing information on the number, incidence, correlates, and causes of autism spectrum disorder and other developmental disabilities for children and adults.


(2) RequirementsTo be eligible to receive a grant or cooperative agreement under paragraph (1), an entity shall submit to the Secretary an application containing such agreements and information as the Secretary may require, including an agreement that the center to be established or supported under the grant or cooperative agreement shall operate in accordance with the following:(A) The center will collect, analyze, and report autism spectrum disorder and other developmental disability data according to guidelines prescribed by the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, after consultation with relevant State and local public health officials, private sector developmental disability researchers, and advocates for individuals with developmental disabilities.

(B) The center will develop or extend an area of special research expertise (including genetics, epigenetics, and epidemiological research related to environmental exposures), immunology, and other relevant research specialty areas.

(C) The center will identify eligible cases and controls through its surveillance system and conduct research into factors which may cause or increase the risk of autism spectrum disorder and other developmental disabilities.



(c) Federal responseThe Secretary shall coordinate the Federal response to requests for assistance from State health, mental health, and education department officials regarding potential or alleged autism spectrum disorder or developmental disability clusters.


(d) DefinitionsIn this part:(1) Other developmental disabilitiesThe term “other developmental disabilities” has the meaning given the term “developmental disability” in section 15002(8) of this title.


(2) StateThe term “State” means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.



(e) SunsetThis section shall not apply after September 30, 2019.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 399AA, as added Pub. L. 109–416, § 3(a), Dec. 19, 2006, 120 Stat. 2822; amended Pub. L. 112–32, § 2(1), Sept. 30, 2011, 125 Stat. 361; Pub. L. 113–157, § 3, Aug. 8, 2014, 128 Stat. 1831.)

Amendments2014—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 113–157, § 3(1), inserted “for children and adults” after “reporting of State epidemiological data”.
Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 113–157, § 3(2), substituted “establishment or support of regional centers of excellence” for “establishment of regional centers of excellence” and inserted “for children and adults” before period at end.
Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 113–157, § 3(3), substituted “center to be established or supported” for “center to be established” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 113–157, § 3(4), substituted “2019” for “2014”.
2011—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 112–32 substituted “2014” for “2011”.


Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding section 1681 of Title 48, Territories and Insular Possessions.

National Autism Spectrum Disorder InitiativePub. L. 113–157, § 2, Aug. 8, 2014, 128 Stat. 1831, provided that:
“(a) In General.—The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall designate an existing official within the Department of Health and Human Services to oversee, in consultation with the Secretaries of Defense and Education, national autism spectrum disorder research, services, and support activities.

“(b) Duties.—The official designated under subsection (a) shall—“(1) implement autism spectrum disorder activities, taking into account the strategic plan developed by the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee under section 399CC(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280i–2(b)); and

“(2) ensure that autism spectrum disorder activities of the Department of Health and Human Services and of other Federal departments and agencies are not unnecessarily duplicative.”






