§ 300x–26a. Withholding of substance abuse funding under section 300x–26(a) No withholding from States committing additional funds for tobacco sale complianceExcept as provided by subsection (e) none of the funds appropriated for fiscal year 2010 or any subsequent fiscal year by this or any subsequent appropriations Act may be used to withhold substance abuse funding from a State pursuant to section 300x–26 of this title if such State certifies to the Secretary of Health and Human Services by May 1 of the fiscal year for which the funds are appropriated, that the State will commit additional State funds, in accordance with subsection (b), to ensure compliance with State laws prohibiting the sale of tobacco products to individuals under 18 years of age.


(b) Amount to be committedThe amount of funds to be committed by a State under subsection (a) shall be equal to 1 percent of such State’s substance abuse block grant allocation for each percentage point by which the State misses the retailer compliance rate goal established by the Secretary under section 300x–26 of this title.


(c) Maintenance of expenditures for tobacco prevention programs and compliance activitiesThe State is to maintain State expenditures in such fiscal year for tobacco prevention programs and for compliance activities at a level that is not less than the level of such expenditures maintained by the State for the preceding fiscal year, and adding to that level the additional funds for tobacco compliance activities required under subsection (a). The State is to submit a report to the Secretary on all State obligations of funds for such fiscal year and all State expenditures for the preceding fiscal year for tobacco prevention and compliance activities by program activity by July 31 of such fiscal year.


(d) Timing of State obligation of additional fundsThe Secretary shall exercise discretion in enforcing the timing of the State obligation of the additional funds required by the certification described in subsection (a) as late as July 31 of such fiscal year.


(e) Withholding from territoriesNone of the funds appropriated by this or any subsequent appropriations Act may be used to withhold substance abuse funding pursuant to section 300x–26 of this title from a territory that receives less than $1,000,000.


(Pub. L. 111–117, div. D, title II, § 212, Dec. 16, 2009, 123 Stat. 3257.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Department of Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, 2010, and also as part of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010, and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.


