§ 1862p–7. STEM industry internship programs(a) In generalThe Director may award grants, on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis, to institutions of higher education, or consortia thereof, to establish or expand partnerships with local or regional private sector entities, for the purpose of providing undergraduate students with integrated internship experiences that connect private sector internship experiences with the students’ STEM coursework. The partnerships may also include industry or professional associations.


(b) Internship programThe grants awarded under subsection (a) may include internship programs in the manufacturing sector.


(c) 11 So in original. Two subsecs. (c) have been enacted. Use of grant fundsGrants under this section may be used—(1) to develop and implement hands-on learning opportunities;

(2) to develop curricula and instructional materials related to industry, including the manufacturing sector;

(3) to perform outreach to secondary schools;

(4) to develop mentorship programs for students with partner organizations; and

(5) to conduct activities to support awareness of career opportunities and skill requirements.


(d) 22 So in original. Two subsecs. (d) have been enacted. PriorityIn awarding grants under this section, the Director shall give priority to institutions of higher education or consortia thereof that demonstrate significant outreach to and coordination with local or regional private sector entities and Regional Centers for the Transfer of Manufacturing Technology established by section 278k(a) of title 15 in developing academic courses designed to provide students with the skills or certifications necessary for employment in local or regional companies.


(c) 1 Outreach to rural communitiesThe Foundation shall conduct outreach to institutions of higher education and private sector entities in rural areas to encourage those entities to participate in partnerships under this section.


(d) 2 Cost-shareThe Director shall require a 50 percent non-Federal cost-share from partnerships established or expanded under this section.


(e) RestrictionNo Federal funds provided under this section may be used—(1) for the purpose of providing stipends or compensation to students for private sector internships unless private sector entities match 75 percent of such funding; or

(2) as payment or reimbursement to private sector entities, except for institutions of higher education.


(f) ReportNot less than 3 years after January 4, 2011, the Director shall submit a report to Congress on the number and total value of awards made under this section, the number of students affected by those awards, any evidence of the effect of those awards on workforce preparation and jobs placement for participating students, and an economic and ethnic breakdown of the participating students.


(Pub. L. 111–358, title V, § 515, Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 4012.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010, also known as the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Reauthorization Act of 2010, and also as part of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2010, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.


Definitions
For definitions of terms used in this section, see section 2 of Pub. L. 111–358, set out as a note under section 6621 of this title, and section 502 of Pub. L. 111–358, set out as a note under section 1862p of this title.


