§ 1823. Appellate jurisdiction of District Court; procedure; review by United States Court of Appeals for Ninth Circuit; rules(a) Appellate jurisdiction of District CourtPrior to the establishment of an appellate court for the Northern Mariana Islands the district court shall have such appellate jurisdiction over the courts established by the Constitution or laws of the Northern Mariana Islands as the Constitution and laws of the Northern Mariana Islands provide, except that such Constitution and laws may not preclude the review of any judgment or order which involves the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, including the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America (90 Stat. 263) (hereinafter referred to as “Covenant”), or any authority exercised thereunder by an officer or agency of the Government of the United States, or the conformity of any law enacted by the legislature of the Northern Mariana Islands or of any orders or regulations issued or actions taken by the executive branch of the government of the Northern Mariana Islands with the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, including the Covenant or with any authority exercised thereunder by an officer or agency of the United States.


(b) Appellate division of District Court; quorum; presiding judge; designation of judges; decisionsAppeals to the district court shall be heard and determined by an appellate division of the court consisting of three judges, of whom two shall constitute a quorum. The judge appointed for the court by the President shall be the presiding judge of the appellate division and shall preside therein unless disqualified or otherwise unable to act. The other judges who are to sit in the appellate division at any session shall be designated by the presiding judge from among the judges assigned to the court from time to time pursuant to section 1821(b)(2) of this title: Provided, That no more than one of them may be a judge of a court of record of the Northern Mariana Islands. The concurrence of two judges shall be necessary to any decision by the appellate division of the district court on the merits of an appeal but the presiding judge alone may make any appropriate orders with respect to an appeal prior to the hearing and determination thereof on the merits and may dismiss an appeal for want of jurisdiction or failure to take or prosecute it in accordance with the applicable law or rules of procedure.


(c) United States Court of Appeals for Ninth Circuit; jurisdiction; appeals; rulesThe United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit shall have jurisdiction of appeals from all final decisions of the appellate division of the district court. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit shall have jurisdiction to promulgate rules necessary to carry out the provisions of this subsection.


(Pub. L. 95–157, § 3, Nov. 8, 1977, 91 Stat. 1266; Pub. L. 98–454, title IX, § 903, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1744.)


References in TextThe Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America, referred to in subsec. (a), is contained in section 1 of Pub. L. 94–241, set out as a note under section 1801 of this title.

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 1694b of this title.

Amendments1984—Pub. L. 98–454 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a), substituted provisions governing the appellate jurisdiction of the District Court prior to the establishment of the appellate court for former provisions which related to the appellate jurisdiction of the court and certain procedural matters which are covered under subsec. (b), and added subsecs. (b) and (c).

Effective Date of 1984 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 98–454 effective on ninetieth day following Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98–454, set out as a note under section 1424 of this title.

Effective DateFor effective date of this section, see section 1825 of this title and Effective Date of Constitution note thereunder.


