§ 300j–3c. National assistance program for water infrastructure and watersheds(a) Technical and financial assistanceThe Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may provide technical and financial assistance in the form of grants to States (1) for the construction, rehabilitation, and improvement of water supply systems, and (2) consistent with nonpoint source management programs established under section 1329 of title 33, for source water quality protection programs to address pollutants in navigable waters for the purpose of making such waters usable by water supply systems.


(b) LimitationNot more than 30 percent of the amounts appropriated to carry out this section in a fiscal year may be used for source water quality protection programs described in subsection (a)(2) of this section.


(c) ConditionAs a condition to receiving assistance under this section, a State shall ensure that such assistance is carried out in the most cost-effective manner, as determined by the State.


(d) Authorization of appropriations(1) Unconditional authorizationThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1997 through 2003. Such sums shall remain available until expended.


(2) Conditional authorizationIn addition to amounts authorized under paragraph (1), there are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1997 through 2003, provided that such authorization shall be in effect for a fiscal year only if at least 75 percent of the total amount of funds authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year by section 300j–12(m) of this title are appropriated.



(e) Acquisition of landsAssistance provided with funds made available under this section may be used for the acquisition of lands and other interests in lands; however, nothing in this section authorizes the acquisition of lands or other interests in lands from other than willing sellers.


(f) Federal shareThe Federal share of the cost of activities for which grants are made under this section shall be 50 percent.


(g) DefinitionsIn this section, the following definitions apply:(1) StateThe term “State” means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


(2) Water supply systemThe term “water supply system” means a system for the provision to the public of piped water for human consumption if such system has at least 15 service connections or regularly serves at least 25 individuals and a draw and fill system for the provision to the public of water for human consumption. Such term does not include a system owned by a Federal agency. Such term includes (A) any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection with such system, and (B) any collection or pretreatment facilities not under such control that are used primarily in connection with such system.



(Pub. L. 104–182, title IV, § 401, Aug. 6, 1996, 110 Stat. 1690.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.


