§ 47136a. Zero-emission airport vehicles and infrastructure(a) In General.—The Secretary of Transportation may establish a pilot program under which the sponsor of a public-use airport may use funds made available under section 47117 or section 48103 for use at such airport to carry out activities associated with the acquisition and operation of zero-emission vehicles (as defined in section 88.102–94 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations), including the construction or modification of infrastructure to facilitate the delivery of fuel and services necessary for the use of such vehicles.

(b) Location in Air Quality Nonattainment Areas.—(1) In general.—A public-use airport may be eligible for participation in the program only if the airport is located in a nonattainment area (as defined in section 171 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7501)).

(2) Shortage of applicants.—If the Secretary receives an insufficient number of applications from public-use airports located in such areas, the Secretary may permit public-use airports that are not located in such areas to participate in the program.


(c) Selection Criteria.—In selecting from among applicants for participation in the program, the Secretary shall give priority consideration to applicants that will achieve the greatest air quality benefits measured by the amount of emissions reduced per dollar of funds expended under the program.

(d) Federal Share.—Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, the Federal share of the costs of a project carried out under the program shall be 50 percent.

(e) Technical Assistance.—(1) In general.—The sponsor of a public-use airport carrying out activities funded under the program may not use more than 10 percent of the amounts made available under the program in any fiscal year for technical assistance in carrying out such activities.

(2) Use of university transportation center.—Participants in the program may use a university transportation center receiving grants under section 5506 in the region of the airport to receive the technical assistance described in paragraph (1).


(f) Materials Identifying Best Practices.—The Secretary may develop and make available materials identifying best practices for carrying out activities funded under the program based on projects carried out under section 47136 and other sources.

(Added Pub. L. 112–95, title V, § 511(a), Feb. 14, 2012, 126 Stat. 107.)
