“SEC. 304. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.“(a) Work Plan.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 21, 1998] and annually thereafter, the Commission shall develop a proposed work plan for Alaska that meets the requirements of paragraph (2) and submit that plan to the Federal Cochairperson for review in accordance with the requirements of subsection (b).

“(2) Work plan.—In developing the work plan, the Commission shall—“(A) solicit project proposals from local governments and other entities and organizations; and

“(B) provide for a comprehensive work plan for rural and infrastructure development and necessary job training in the area covered under the work plan.


“(3) Report.—Upon completion of a work plan under this subsection, the Commission shall prepare, and submit to the Secretary, the Federal Cochairperson, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, a report that outlines the work plan and contains recommendations for funding priorities.


“(b) Review by Federal Cochairperson.—“(1) In general.—Upon receiving a work plan under this section, the Secretary, acting through the Federal Cochairperson, shall publish the work plan in the Federal Register, with notice and an opportunity for public comment. The period for public review and comment shall be the 30-day period beginning on the date of publication of that notice.

“(2) Criteria for review.—In conducting a review under paragraph (1), the Secretary, acting through the Federal Cochairperson, shall—“(A) take into consideration the information, views, and comments received from interested parties through the public review and comment process specified in paragraph (1); and

“(B) consult with appropriate Federal officials in Alaska including but not limited to Bureau of Indian Affairs, Economic Development Administration, and Rural Development Administration.


“(3) Approval.—Not later than 30 days after the end of the period specified in paragraph (1), the Secretary acting through the Federal Cochairperson, shall—“(A) approve, disapprove, or partially approve the work plan that is the subject of the review; and

“(B) issue to the Commission a notice of the approval, disapproval, or partial approval that—“(i) specifies the reasons for disapproving any portion of the work plan; and

“(ii) if applicable, includes recommendations for revisions to the work plan to make the plan subject to approval.



“(4) Review of disapproval or partial approval.—If the Secretary, acting through the Federal Cochairperson, disapproves or partially approves a work plan, the Federal Cochairperson shall submit that work plan to the Commission for review and revision.


