§ 274f–4. Report relating to organ donation and the recovery, preservation, and transportation of organs(a) In generalNot later than December 31, 2005, and every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall report to the appropriate committees of Congress on the activities of the Department carried out pursuant to this part, including an evaluation describing the extent to which the activities have affected the rate of organ donation and recovery.


(b) RequirementsTo the extent practicable, each report submitted under subsection (a) of this section shall—(1) evaluate the effectiveness of activities, identify effective activities, and disseminate such findings with respect to organ donation and recovery;

(2) assess organ donation and recovery activities that are recently completed, ongoing, or planned; and

(3) evaluate progress on the implementation of the plan required under subsection (c)(5) of this section.


(c) Initial report requirementsThe initial report under subsection (a) of this section shall include the following:(1) An evaluation of the organ donation practices of organ procurement organizations, States, other countries, and other appropriate organizations including an examination across all populations, including those with low organ donation rates, of—(A) existing barriers to organ donation; and

(B) the most effective donation and recovery practices.


(2) An evaluation of living donation practices and procedures. Such evaluation shall include an assessment of issues relating to informed consent and the health risks associated with living donation (including possible reduction of long-term effects).

(3) An evaluation of—(A) federally supported or conducted organ donation efforts and policies, as well as federally supported or conducted basic, clinical, and health services research (including research on preservation techniques and organ rejection and compatibility); and

(B) the coordination of such efforts across relevant agencies within the Department and throughout the Federal Government.


(4) An evaluation of the costs and benefits of State donor registries, including the status of existing State donor registries, the effect of State donor registries on organ donation rates, issues relating to consent, and recommendations regarding improving the effectiveness of State donor registries in increasing overall organ donation rates.

(5) A plan to improve federally supported or conducted organ donation and recovery activities, including, when appropriate, the establishment of baselines and benchmarks to measure overall outcomes of these programs. Such plan shall provide for the ongoing coordination of federally supported or conducted organ donation and research activities.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 377D, as added Pub. L. 108–216, § 6, Apr. 5, 2004, 118 Stat. 588.)
