§ 44918. Crew training(a) Basic Security Training.—(1) In general.—Each air carrier providing scheduled passenger air transportation shall carry out a training program for flight and cabin crew members to prepare the crew members for potential threat conditions.

(2) Program elements.—An air carrier training program under this subsection shall include, at a minimum, elements that address each of the following:(A) Recognizing suspicious activities and determining the seriousness of any occurrence.

(B) Crew communication and coordination.

(C) The proper commands to give passengers and attackers.

(D) Appropriate responses to defend oneself.

(E) Use of protective devices assigned to crew members (to the extent such devices are required by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration or the Under Secretary for Border and Transportation Security of the Department of Homeland Security).

(F) Psychology of terrorists to cope with hijacker behavior and passenger responses.

(G) Situational training exercises regarding various threat conditions.

(H) Flight deck procedures or aircraft maneuvers to defend the aircraft and cabin crew responses to such procedures and maneuvers.

(I) The proper conduct of a cabin search, including explosive device recognition.

(J) Any other subject matter considered appropriate by the Under Secretary.


(3) Approval.—An air carrier training program under this subsection shall be subject to approval by the Under Secretary.

(4) Minimum standards.—Not later than one year after the date of enactment of the Vision 100—Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act, the Under Secretary may establish minimum standards for the training provided under this subsection and for recurrent training.

(5) Existing programs.—Notwithstanding paragraphs (3) and (4), any training program of an air carrier to prepare flight and cabin crew members for potential threat conditions that was approved by the Administrator or the Under Secretary before the date of enactment of the Vision 100—Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act may continue in effect until disapproved or ordered modified by the Under Secretary.

(6) Monitoring.—The Under Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator, shall monitor air carrier training programs under this subsection and periodically shall review an air carrier’s training program to ensure that the program is adequately preparing crew members for potential threat conditions. In determining when an air carrier’s training program should be reviewed under this paragraph, the Under Secretary shall consider complaints from crew members. The Under Secretary shall ensure that employees responsible for monitoring the training programs have the necessary resources and knowledge.

(7) Updates.—The Under Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator, shall order air carriers to modify training programs under this subsection to reflect new or different security threats.


(b) Advanced Self-Defense Training.—(1) In general.—Not later than one year after the date of enactment of the Vision 100—Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act, the Under Secretary shall develop and provide a voluntary training program for flight and cabin crew members of air carriers providing scheduled passenger air transportation.

(2) Program elements.—The training program under this subsection shall include both classroom and effective hands-on training in the following elements of self-defense:(A) Deterring a passenger who might present a threat.

(B) Advanced control, striking, and restraint techniques.

(C) Training to defend oneself against edged or contact weapons.

(D) Methods to subdue and restrain an attacker.

(E) Use of available items aboard the aircraft for self-defense.

(F) Appropriate and effective responses to defend oneself, including the use of force against an attacker.

(G) Any other element of training that the Under Secretary considers appropriate.


(3) Participation not required.—A crew member shall not be required to participate in the training program under this subsection.

(4) Compensation.—Neither the Federal Government nor an air carrier shall be required to compensate a crew member for participating in the training program under this subsection.

(5) Fees.—A crew member shall not be required to pay a fee for the training program under this subsection.

(6) Consultation.—In developing the training program under this subsection, the Under Secretary shall consult with law enforcement personnel and security experts who have expertise in self-defense training, terrorism experts, representatives of air carriers, the director of self-defense training in the Federal Air Marshals Service, flight attendants, labor organizations representing flight attendants, and educational institutions offering law enforcement training programs.

(7) Designation of tsa official.—The Under Secretary shall designate an official in the Transportation Security Administration to be responsible for implementing the training program under this subsection. The official shall consult with air carriers and labor organizations representing crew members before implementing the program to ensure that it is appropriate for situations that may arise on board an aircraft during a flight.


(c) Limitation.—Actions by crew members under this section shall be subject to the provisions of section 44903(k).

(Added Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 107(a), Nov. 19, 2001, 115 Stat. 610; amended Pub. L. 107–296, title XIV, § 1403(a), Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2305; Pub. L. 108–176, title VI, § 603, Dec. 12, 2003, 117 Stat. 2563.)


References in TextThe date of enactment of the Vision 100—Century of Aviation Reauthorization Act, referred to in subsecs. (a)(4), (5) and (b)(1), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 108–176, which was approved Dec. 12, 2003.

Amendments2003—Pub. L. 108–176 reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text consisted of subsecs. (a) to (e) relating to development of detailed guidance for a scheduled passenger air carrier flight and cabin crew training program to prepare crew members for potential threat conditions.
2002—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 107–296 designated existing provisions as par. (1), inserted heading, substituted “The Under Secretary” for “The Administrator”, added pars. (2) and (3), and realigned margins.

Effective Date of 2003 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 108–176 applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 2003, except as otherwise specifically provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–176, set out as a note under section 106 of this title.

Effective Date of 2002 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 107–296 effective 60 days after Nov. 25, 2002, see section 4 of Pub. L. 107–296, set out as an Effective Date note under section 101 of Title 6, Domestic Security.


