§ 17352. Establishment and management of Foundation(a) Establishment(1) In generalThere is established in the executive branch a foundation to be known as the “International Clean Energy Foundation” that shall be responsible for carrying out the provisions of this part. The Foundation shall be a government corporation, as defined in section 103 of title 5.


(2) Board of DirectorsThe Foundation shall be governed by a Board of Directors in accordance with subsection (c).


(3) Intent of CongressIt is the intent of Congress, in establishing the structure of the Foundation set forth in this subsection, to create an entity that serves the long-term foreign policy and energy security goals of reducing global greenhouse gas emissions.



(b) Chief Executive Officer(1) In generalThere shall be in the Foundation a Chief Executive Officer who shall be responsible for the management of the Foundation.


(2) AppointmentThe Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed by the Board, with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall be a recognized leader in clean and efficient energy technologies and climate change and shall have experience in energy security, business, or foreign policy, chosen on the basis of a rigorous search.


(3) Relationship to BoardThe Chief Executive Officer shall report to, and be under the direct authority of, the Board.


(4) Compensation and rank(A) In generalThe Chief Executive Officer shall be compensated at the rate provided for level III of the Executive Schedule under section 5314 of title 5.


(B) Omitted

(C) Authorities and dutiesThe Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for the management of the Foundation and shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the Foundation.


(D) Authority to appoint officersIn consultation and with approval of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall appoint all officers of the Foundation.




(c) Board of Directors(1) EstablishmentThere shall be in the Foundation a Board of Directors.


(2) DutiesThe Board shall perform the functions specified to be carried out by the Board in this part and may prescribe, amend, and repeal bylaws, rules, regulations, and procedures governing the manner in which the business of the Foundation may be conducted and in which the powers granted to it by law may be exercised.


(3) MembershipThe Board shall consist of—(A) the Secretary of State (or the Secretary’s designee), the Secretary of Energy (or the Secretary’s designee), and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (or the Administrator’s designee); and

(B) four other individuals with relevant experience in matters relating to energy security (such as individuals who represent institutions of energy policy, business organizations, foreign policy organizations, or other relevant organizations) who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, of whom—(i) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives;

(ii) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives;

(iii) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the Majority Leader of the Senate; and

(iv) one individual shall be appointed from among a list of individuals submitted by the Minority Leader of the Senate.



(4) Chief Executive OfficerThe Chief Executive Officer of the Foundation shall serve as a nonvoting, ex officio member of the Board.


(5) Terms(A) Officers of the Federal GovernmentEach member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(A) shall serve for a term that is concurrent with the term of service of the individual’s position as an officer within the other Federal department or agency.


(B) Other membersEach member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B) shall be appointed for a term of 3 years and may be reappointed for a term of an additional 3 years.


(C) VacanciesA vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.


(D) Acting membersA vacancy in the Board may be filled with an appointment of an acting member by the Chairperson of the Board for up to 1 year while a nominee is named and awaits confirmation in accordance with paragraph (3)(B).



(6) ChairpersonThere shall be a Chairperson of the Board. The Secretary of State (or the Secretary’s designee) shall serve as the Chairperson.


(7) QuorumA majority of the members of the Board described in paragraph (3) shall constitute a quorum, which, except with respect to a meeting of the Board during the 135-day period beginning on December 19, 2007, shall include at least 1 member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B).


(8) MeetingsThe Board shall meet at the call of the Chairperson, who shall call a meeting no less than once a year.


(9) Compensation(A) Officers of the Federal Government(i) In generalA member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(A) may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of the member’s service on the Board.


(ii) Travel expensesEach such member of the Board shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.



(B) Other members(i) In generalExcept as provided in clause (ii), a member of the Board described in paragraph (3)(B)—(I) shall be paid compensation out of funds made available for the purposes of this part at the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under section 5332 of title 5 for each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in the actual performance of duties as a member of the Board; and

(II) while away from the member’s home or regular place of business on necessary travel in the actual performance of duties as a member of the Board, shall be paid per diem, travel, and transportation expenses in the same manner as is provided under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.


(ii) LimitationA member of the Board may not be paid compensation under clause (i)(II) for more than 90 days in any calendar year.





(Pub. L. 110–140, title IX, § 922, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1733.)

Codification
Section is comprised of section 922 of Pub. L. 110–140. Subsec. (b)(4)(B) of section 922 of Pub. L. 110–140 amended section 5314 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


