“SEC. 217. AIRLINE TRANSPORT PILOT CERTIFICATION.“(a) Rulemaking Proceeding.—The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall conduct a rulemaking proceeding to amend part 61 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, to modify requirements for the issuance of an airline transport pilot certificate.

“(b) Minimum Requirements.—To be qualified to receive an airline transport pilot certificate pursuant to subsection (a), an individual shall—“(1) have sufficient flight hours, as determined by the Administrator, to enable a pilot to function effectively in an air carrier operational environment; and

“(2) have received flight training, academic training, or operational experience that will prepare a pilot, at a minimum, to—“(A) function effectively in a multipilot environment;

“(B) function effectively in adverse weather conditions, including icing conditions;

“(C) function effectively during high altitude operations;

“(D) adhere to the highest professional standards; and

“(E) function effectively in an air carrier operational environment.



“(c) Flight Hours.—“(1) Numbers of flight hours.—The total flight hours required by the Administrator under subsection (b)(1) shall be at least 1,500 flight hours.

“(2) Flight hours in difficult operational conditions.—The total flight hours required by the Administrator under subsection (b)(1) shall include sufficient flight hours, as determined by the Administrator, in difficult operational conditions that may be encountered by an air carrier to enable a pilot to operate safely in such conditions.


“(d) Credit Toward Flight Hours.—The Administrator may allow specific academic training courses, beyond those required under subsection (b)(2), to be credited toward the total flight hours required under subsection (c). The Administrator may allow such credit based on a determination by the Administrator that allowing a pilot to take specific academic training courses will enhance safety more than requiring the pilot to fully comply with the flight hours requirement.

“(e) Recommendations of Expert Panel.—In conducting the rulemaking proceeding under this section, the Administrator shall review and consider the assessment and recommendations of the expert panel to review part 121 and part 135 training hours established by section 209(b) of this Act.

“(f) Deadline.—Not later than 36 months after the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 1, 2010], the Administrator shall issue a final rule under subsection (a).”

