§ 287c–21. Purpose of Center(a) In generalThe general purposes of the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (in this subpart referred to as the “Center”) are the conduct and support of basic and applied research (including both intramural and extramural research), research training, the dissemination of health information, and other programs with respect to identifying, investigating, and validating complementary and alternative treatment, diagnostic and prevention modalities, disciplines and systems. The Center shall be headed by a director, who shall be appointed by the Secretary. The Director of the Center shall report directly to the Director of NIH.


(b) Advisory councilThe Secretary shall establish an advisory council for the Center in accordance with section 284a of this title, except that at least half of the members of the advisory council who are not ex officio members shall include practitioners licensed in one or more of the major systems with which the Center is concerned, and at least 3 individuals representing the interests of individual consumers of complementary and alternative medicine.


(c) Complement to conventional medicineIn carrying out subsection (a) of this section, the Director of the Center shall, as appropriate, study the integration of alternative treatment, diagnostic and prevention systems, modalities, and disciplines with the practice of conventional medicine as a complement to such medicine and into health care delivery systems in the United States.


(d) Appropriate scientific expertise and coordination with institutes and Federal agenciesThe Director of the Center, after consultation with the advisory council for the Center and the division of research grants, shall ensure that scientists with appropriate expertise in research on complementary and alternative medicine are incorporated into the review, oversight, and management processes of all research projects and other activities funded by the Center. In carrying out this subsection, the Director of the Center, as necessary, may establish review groups with appropriate scientific expertise. The Director of the Center shall coordinate efforts with other Institutes and Federal agencies to ensure appropriate scientific input and management.


(e) Evaluation of various disciplines and systemsIn carrying out subsection (a) of this section, the Director of the Center shall identify and evaluate alternative and complementary medical treatment, diagnostic and prevention modalities in each of the disciplines and systems with which the Center is concerned, including each discipline and system in which accreditation, national certification, or a State license is available.


(f) Ensuring high quality, rigorous scientific reviewIn order to ensure high quality, rigorous scientific review of complementary and alternative, diagnostic and prevention modalities, disciplines and systems, the Director of the Center shall conduct or support the following activities:(1) Outcomes research and investigations.

(2) Epidemiological studies.

(3) Health services research.

(4) Basic science research.

(5) Clinical trials.

(6) Other appropriate research and investigational activities.


The Director of NIH, in coordination with the Director of the Center, shall designate specific personnel in each Institute to serve as full-time liaisons with the Center in facilitating appropriate coordination and scientific input.

(g) Data system; information clearinghouse(1) Data systemThe Director of the Center shall establish a bibliographic system for the collection, storage, and retrieval of worldwide research relating to complementary and alternative treatment, diagnostic and prevention modalities, disciplines and systems. Such a system shall be regularly updated and publicly accessible.


(2) ClearinghouseThe Director of the Center shall establish an information clearinghouse to facilitate and enhance, through the effective dissemination of information, knowledge and understanding of alternative medical treatment, diagnostic and prevention practices by health professionals, patients, industry, and the public.



(h) Research centersThe Director of the Center, after consultation with the advisory council for the Center, shall provide support for the development and operation of multipurpose centers to conduct research and other activities described in subsection (a) of this section with respect to complementary and alternative treatment, diagnostic and prevention modalities, disciplines and systems. The provision of support for the development and operation of such centers shall include accredited complementary and alternative medicine research and education facilities.


(i) Availability of resourcesAfter consultation with the Director of the Center, the Director of NIH shall ensure that resources of the National Institutes of Health, including laboratory and clinical facilities, fellowships (including research training fellowship and junior and senior clinical fellowships), and other resources are sufficiently available to enable the Center to appropriately and effectively carry out its duties as described in subsection (a) of this section. The Director of NIH, in coordination with the Director of the Center, shall designate specific personnel in each Institute to serve as full-time liaisons with the Center in facilitating appropriate coordination and scientific input.


(j) Availability of appropriationsAmounts appropriated to carry out this section for fiscal year 1999 are available for obligation through September 30, 2001. Amounts appropriated to carry out this section for fiscal year 2000 are available for obligation through September 30, 2001.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 485D, as added Pub. L. 105–277, div. A, § 101(f) [title VI, § 601(2)], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–337, 2681–387.)

Termination of Advisory CouncilsAdvisory councils established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a council established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such council is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a council established by Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See sections 3(2) and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
Pub. L. 93–641, § 6, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2275, set out as a note under section 217a of this title, provided that an advisory committee established pursuant to the Public Health Service Act shall terminate at such time as may be specifically prescribed by an Act of Congress enacted after Jan. 4, 1975.


Executive Order No. 13147
Ex. Ord. No. 13147, Mar. 7, 2000, 65 F.R. 13233, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 13167, Sept. 15, 2000, 65 F.R. 54079 [57079], 65 F.R. 57436, which established White House Commission on Complementary and Alternative Medicine Policy, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 13316, § 3(i), Sept. 17, 2003, 68 F.R. 55256, eff. Sept. 30, 2003.


