§ 7709. Scientific Earthquake Studies Advisory Committee(a) EstablishmentThe Director of the United States Geological Survey shall establish a Scientific Earthquake Studies Advisory Committee.


(b) OrganizationThe Director shall establish procedures for selection of individuals not employed by the Federal Government who are qualified in the seismic sciences and other appropriate fields and may, pursuant to such procedures, select up to 10 individuals, one of whom shall be designated Chairman, to serve on the Advisory Committee. Selection of individuals for the Advisory Committee shall be based solely on established records of distinguished service, and the Director shall ensure that a reasonable cross-section of views and expertise is represented. In selecting individuals to serve on the Advisory Committee, the Director shall seek and give due consideration to recommendations from the National Academy of Sciences, professional societies, and other appropriate organizations.


(c) MeetingsThe Advisory Committee shall meet at such times and places as may be designated by the Chairman in consultation with the Director.


(d) DutiesThe Advisory Committee shall advise the Director on matters relating to the United States Geological Survey’s participation in the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program, including the United States Geological Survey’s roles, goals, and objectives within that Program, its capabilities and research needs, guidance on achieving major objectives, and establishing and measuring performance goals. The Advisory Committee shall issue an annual report to the Director for submission to Congress on or before September 30 of each year. The report shall describe the Advisory Committee’s activities and address policy issues or matters that affect the United States Geological Survey’s participation in the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program.


(Pub. L. 106–503, title II, § 210, Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2308.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Authorization Act of 2000, and not as part of the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 which comprises this chapter.

Termination of Advisory CommitteesAdvisory committees established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a committee established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such committee is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a committee established by the Congress, its duration is otherwise provided for by law. See section 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


