§ 16392. Technology Infrastructure Program(a) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) ProgramThe term “Program” means the Technology Infrastructure Program established under subsection (b).


(2) Technology clusterThe term “technology cluster” means a concentration of technology-related business concerns, institutions of higher education, or nonprofit institutions, that reinforce each other’s performance in the areas of technology development through formal or informal relationships.


(3) Technology-related business concernThe term “technology-related business concern” means a for-profit corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, or small business concern that—(A) conducts scientific or engineering research;

(B) develops new technologies;

(C) manufactures products based on new technologies; or

(D) performs technological services.



(b) EstablishmentThe Secretary shall establish a Technology Infrastructure Program in accordance with this section.


(c) PurposeThe purpose of the Program shall be to improve the ability of National Laboratories and single-purpose research facilities to support departmental missions by—(1) stimulating the development of technology clusters that can support departmental missions at the National Laboratories or single-purpose research facilities;

(2) improving the ability of National Laboratories and single-purpose research facilities to leverage and benefit from commercial research, technology, products, processes, and services; and

(3) encouraging the exchange of scientific and technological expertise between—(A) National Laboratories or single-purpose research facilities; and

(B) entities that can support departmental missions at the National Laboratories or single-purpose research facilities, such as—(i) institutions of higher education;

(ii) technology-related business concerns;

(iii) nonprofit institutions; and

(iv) agencies of State, tribal, or local governments.




(d) ProjectsThe Secretary shall authorize the director of each National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility to implement the Program at the National Laboratory or facility through one or more projects that meet the requirements of subsections (e) and (f).


(e) Program requirements(1) In generalEach project funded under this section shall meet the requirements of this subsection.


(2) EntitiesEach project shall include at least one of each of the following entities:(A) A business.

(B) An institution of higher education.

(C) A nonprofit institution.

(D) An agency of a State, local, or tribal government.


(3) Cost-sharing(A) In generalThe costs of carrying out projects under this section shall be shared in accordance with section 16352 of this title.


(B) SourcesThe calculation of costs paid by the non-Federal sources for a project shall include cash, personnel, services, equipment, and other resources expended on the project after the commencement of the project.


(C) Research and development expensesIndependent research and development expenses of Government contractors that qualify for reimbursement under section 31.205–18(e) of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations, issued pursuant to section 1303(a)(1) of title 41, may be credited towards costs paid by non-Federal sources to a project, if the expenses meet the other requirements of this section.



(4) Competitive selectionA project under this section shall be competitively selected using procedures determined by the Secretary.


(5) AccountingAny participant that receives funds under this section may use generally accepted accounting principles for maintaining accounts, books, and records relating to the project.


(6) DurationNo Federal funds shall be made available under this section for a construction project or for any project with a duration of more than 5 years.



(f) Selection criteria(1) Departmental missionsThe Secretary shall allocate funds under this section only if the Director of the National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility managing the project determines that the project is likely to improve the ability of the National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility to achieve technical success in meeting departmental missions.


(2) Other criteriaIn selecting a project to receive Federal funds, the Secretary shall consider—(A) the potential of the project to promote the development of a commercially sustainable technology cluster following the period of investment by the Department, which will derive most of the demand for its products or services from the private sector, and which will support departmental missions at the participating National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility;

(B) the potential of the project to promote the use of commercial research, technology, products, processes, and services by the participating National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility to achieve its mission or the commercial development of technological innovations made at the participating National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility;

(C) the extent to which the project involves a wide variety and number of institutions of higher education, nonprofit institutions, and technology-related business concerns that can support the missions of the participating National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility and that will make substantive contributions to achieving the goals of the project;

(D) the extent to which the project focuses on promoting the development of technology-related business concerns that are small businesses or involves such small businesses substantively in the project; and

(E) such other criteria as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.



(g) AllocationIn allocating funds for projects approved under this section, the Secretary shall provide—(1) the Federal share of the project costs; and

(2) additional funds to the National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility managing the project to permit the National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility to carry out activities relating to the project, and to coordinate the activities with the project.


(h) Report to CongressNot later than July 1, 2008, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on whether the Program should be continued and, if so, how the program should be managed.


(i) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for activities under this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2008.


(Pub. L. 109–58, title X, § 1002, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 927.)

Codification
In subsec. (e)(3)(C), “section 1303(a)(1) of title 41” substituted for “section 25(c)(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 421(c)(1))” on authority of Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3854, which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.


