§ 6341. Definitions
In this part:(1) AdministratorThe term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.


(2) Combined heat and powerThe term “combined heat and power system” means a facility that—(A) simultaneously and efficiently produces useful thermal energy and electricity; and

(B) recovers not less than 60 percent of the energy value in the fuel (on a higher-heating-value basis) in the form of useful thermal energy and electricity.


(3) Net excess powerThe term “net excess power” means, for any facility, recoverable waste energy recovered in the form of electricity in quantities exceeding the total consumption of electricity at the specific time of generation on the site at which the facility is located.


(4) ProjectThe term “project” means a recoverable waste energy project or a combined heat and power system project.


(5) Recoverable waste energyThe term “recoverable waste energy” means waste energy from which electricity or useful thermal energy may be recovered through modification of an existing facility or addition of a new facility.


(6) RegistryThe term “Registry” means the Registry of Recoverable Waste Energy Sources established under section 6342(d) of this title.


(7) Useful thermal energyThe term “useful thermal energy” means energy—(A) in the form of direct heat, steam, hot water, or other thermal form that is used in production and beneficial measures for heating, cooling, humidity control, process use, or other valid thermal end-use energy requirements; and

(B) for which fuel or electricity would otherwise be consumed.


(8) Waste energyThe term “waste energy” means—(A) exhaust heat or flared gas from any industrial process;

(B) waste gas or industrial tail gas that would otherwise be flared, incinerated, or vented;

(C) a pressure drop in any gas, excluding any pressure drop to a condenser that subsequently vents the resulting heat; and

(D) such other forms of waste energy as the Administrator may determine.


(9) Other termsThe terms “electric utility”, “nonregulated electric utility”, “State regulated electric utility”, and other terms have the meanings given those terms in title I of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2611 et seq.).


(Pub. L. 94–163, title III, § 371, as added Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 451(a), Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1623.)


References in TextThe Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, referred to in par. (9), is Pub. L. 95–617, Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3117. Title I (§ 101 et seq.) of the Act enacted subchapters I to IV of chapter 46 (§ 2611 et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation, and section 6808 of this title, and amended sections 6802 to 6807 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2601 of Title 16 and Tables.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 6341, Pub. L. 94–163, title III, § 371, Dec. 22, 1975, 89 Stat. 936; Pub. L. 95–619, title VI, §§ 601(c), 691(b)(2), Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3283, 3288, defined terms used in former part C, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 99–509, title III, § 3101(b), Oct. 21, 1986, 100 Stat. 1888.

Effective DateSection effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140, set out as a note under section 1824 of Title 2, The Congress.


Ex. Ord. No. 13624. Accelerating Investment in Industrial Energy Efficiency
Ex. Ord. No. 13624, Aug. 30, 2012, 77 Stat. 54779, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, and in order to promote American manufacturing by helping to facilitate investments in energy efficiency at industrial facilities, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Policy. The industrial sector accounts for over 30 percent of all energy consumed in the United States, and, for many manufacturers, energy costs affect overall competitiveness. While our manufacturing facilities have made progress in becoming more energy efficient over the past several decades, there is an opportunity to accelerate and expand these efforts with investments to reduce energy use through more efficient manufacturing processes and facilities and the expanded use of combined heat and power (CHP). Instead of burning fuel in an on-site boiler to produce thermal energy and also purchasing electricity from the grid, a manufacturing facility can use a CHP system to provide both types of energy in one energy-efficient step. Accelerating these investments in our Nation’s factories can improve the competitiveness of United States manufacturing, lower energy costs, free up future capital for businesses to invest, reduce air pollution, and create jobs.
Despite these benefits, independent studies have pointed to under-investment in industrial energy efficiency and CHP as a result of numerous barriers. The Federal Government has limited but important authorities to overcome these barriers, and our efforts to support investment in industrial energy efficiency and CHP should involve coordinated engagement with a broad set of stakeholders, including States, manufacturers, utilities, and others. By working with all stakeholders to address these barriers, we have an opportunity to save industrial users tens of billions of dollars in energy costs over the next decade.
There is no one-size-fits-all solution for our manufacturers, so it is imperative that we support these investments through a variety of approaches, including encouraging private sector investment by setting goals and highlighting the benefits of investment, improving coordination at the Federal level, partnering with and supporting States, and identifying investment models beneficial to the multiple stakeholders involved.
To formalize and support the close interagency coordination that is required to accelerate greater investment in industrial energy efficiency and CHP, this order directs certain executive departments and agencies to convene national and regional stakeholders to identify, develop, and encourage the adoption of investment models and State best practice policies for industrial energy efficiency and CHP; provide technical assistance to States and manufacturers to encourage investment in industrial energy efficiency and CHP; provide public information on the benefits of investment in industrial energy efficiency and CHP; and use existing Federal authorities, programs, and policies to support investment in industrial energy efficiency and CHP.
Sec. 2. Encouraging Investment in Industrial Efficiency. The Departments of Energy, Commerce, and Agriculture, and the Environmental Protection Agency, in coordination with the National Economic Council, the Domestic Policy Council, the Council on Environmental Quality, and the Office of Science and Technology Policy, shall coordinate policies to encourage investment in industrial efficiency in order to reduce costs for industrial users, improve U.S. competitiveness, create jobs, and reduce harmful air pollution. In doing so, they shall engage States, industrial companies, utility companies, and other stakeholders to accelerate this investment. Specifically, these agencies shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law:
(a) coordinate and strongly encourage efforts to achieve a national goal of deploying 40 gigawatts of new, cost-effective industrial CHP in the United States by the end of 2020;
(b) convene stakeholders, through a series of public workshops, to develop and encourage the use of best practice State policies and investment models that address the multiple barriers to investment in industrial energy efficiency and CHP;
(c) utilize their respective relevant authorities and resources to encourage investment in industrial energy efficiency and CHP, such as by:
(i) providing assistance to States on accounting for the potential emission reduction benefits of CHP and other energy efficiency policies when developing State Implementation Plans (SIPs) to achieve national ambient air quality standards;
(ii) providing incentives for the deployment of CHP and other types of clean energy, such as set-asides under emissions allowance trading program state implementation plans, grants, and loans;
(iii) employing output-based approaches as compliance options in power and industrial sector regulations, as appropriate, to recognize the emissions benefits of highly efficient energy generation technologies like CHP; and
(iv) seeking to expand participation in and create additional tools to support the Better Buildings, Better Plants program at the Department of Energy, which is working with companies to help them achieve a goal of reducing energy intensity by 25 percent over 10 years, as well as utilizing existing partnership programs to support energy efficiency and CHP;
(d) support and encourage efforts to accelerate investment in industrial energy efficiency and CHP by:
(i) providing general guidance, technical analysis and information, and financial analysis on the value of investment in industrial energy efficiency and CHP to States, utilities, and owners and operators of industrial facilities;
(ii) improving the usefulness of Federal data collection and analysis; and
(iii) assisting States in developing and implementing State-specific best practice policies that can accelerate investment in industrial energy efficiency and CHP.
In implementing this section, these agencies should consult with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, as appropriate.
Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:
(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency, or the head thereof; or
(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.
(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.
(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

Barack Obama.



