“SEC. 2. FINDINGS.“Congress makes the following findings:“(1) The goals of the Police Athletic/Activities League are to—“(A) increase the academic success of youth participants in PAL programs;

“(B) promote a safe, healthy environment for youth under the supervision of law enforcement personnel where mutual trust and respect can be built;

“(C) develop life enhancing character and leadership skills in young people;

“(D) increase school attendance by providing alternatives to suspensions and expulsions;

“(E) reduce the juvenile crime rate in participating designated communities and the number of police calls involving juveniles during nonschool hours;

“(F) provide youths with alternatives to drugs, alcohol, tobacco, and gang activity;

“(G) create positive communications and interaction between youth and law enforcement personnel; and

“(H) prepare youth for the workplace.


“(2) The Police Athletic/Activities League, during its 90-year history as a national organization, has proven to be a positive force in the communities it serves.

“(3) The Police Athletic/Activities League is a network of 1,700 facilities serving over 3,000 communities. There are 350 PAL chapters throughout the United States, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, serving 2,000,000 youth, ages 5 to 18, nationwide.

“(4) Based on PAL chapter demographics, approximately 85 percent of the youths who benefit from PAL programs live in inner cities and urban areas.

“(5) PAL chapters are locally operated, volunteer-driven organizations. Although most PAL chapters are sponsored by a law enforcement agency, PAL chapters rarely receive direct funding from law enforcement agencies and are dependent in large part on support from the private sector, such as individuals, business leaders, corporations, and foundations. PAL chapters have been exceptionally successful in balancing public funds with private sector donations and maximizing community involvement.

“(6) Today’s youth face far greater risks than did their parents and grandparents. Law enforcement statistics demonstrate that youth between the ages of 12 and 18 are at risk of committing violent acts and being victims of violent acts between the hours of 3 p.m. and 8 p.m.

“(7) Greater numbers of students are dropping out of school and failing in school, even though the consequences of academic failure are more dire in 2005 than ever before.

“(8) Many distressed areas in the United States are still underserved by PAL chapters.

