§ 1953. Antidrug program(a) PlanThe Department of the Interior shall develop, in cooperation with the Government of Palau and the National Drug Control Policy Office, a plan for an antidrug program in Palau. The plan shall be submitted to the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs, Foreign Affairs, and Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources and Appropriations of the Senate by April 1, 1990. The plan shall: (1) identify the specific needs and costs of such an antidrug program; (2) shall identify all existing resources to be allocated for its implementation by the Government of the United States and the Government of Palau; and (3) shall recommend priority use for additional resources, assuming such resources are made available.


(b) AgreementFollowing completion of the plan, the President and the Government of Palau shall negotiate an agreement to facilitate implementation of the plan. Such agreement may include—(1) that the Government of Palau may request, on a long-term or case-by-case basis, that the officers of United States law enforcement agencies may conduct investigations consistent with implementation of the plan in cooperation with the law enforcement agencies of the Government of Palau;

(2) that the Government of Palau or the Government of the United States may agree to provide specific resources, on a one-time or a multiyear basis, to strengthen the antidrug program; and

(3) a specific description of the technical assistance, training, and equipment to be provided to Palau by the United States necessary to implement the plan.


(Pub. L. 101–219, title I, § 103, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat. 1870.)

Codification
Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.


Change of Name
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress, Jan. 5, 1993.


