“SEC. 5. MEMBERSHIP.“(a) Number and Appointment.—The Commission shall be composed of 11 members as follows:“(1) One member appointed by the President from among for-profit entities that hire individuals in the fields of engineering, science, or technology development.

“(2) Two members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives from among such entities.

“(3) One member appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives from among such entities.

“(4) Two members appointed by the majority leader of the Senate from among such entities.

“(5) One member appointed by the minority leader of the Senate from among such entities.

“(6) Two members appointed by the Chairman of the National Governors Association from among individuals in education or academia in the fields of life science, physical science, or engineering.

“(7) Two members appointed by the Vice Chairman of the National Governors Association from among such individuals.


“(b) Initial Appointments.—Initial appointments shall be made under subsection (a) not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 14, 1998].

“(c) Terms.—“(1) In general.—Each member shall be appointed for the life of the Commission.

“(2) Vacancies.—A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.


“(d) Pay of Members.—Members shall not be paid by reason of their service on the Commission.

“(e) Travel Expenses.—Each member shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5, United States Code.

“(f) Quorum.—A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

“(g) Chairperson.—The Chairperson of the Commission shall be elected by the members.

“(h) Meetings.—The Commission shall meet not fewer than 5 times in connection with and pending the completion of the report described in section 8. The Commission shall hold additional meetings for such purpose if the Chairperson or a majority of the members of the Commission requests the additional meetings in writing.

“(i) Employment Status.—Members of the Commission shall not be deemed to be employees of the Federal Government by reason of their work on the Commission except for the purposes of—“(1) the tort claims provisions of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code; and

“(2) subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, relating to compensation for work injuries.


