§ 1802. Congressional declaration of purposes
The purposes of this chapter are to—(1) establish policies and procedures for managing the oil and natural gas resources of the Outer Continental Shelf which are intended to result in expedited exploration and development of the Outer Continental Shelf in order to achieve national economic and energy policy goals, assure national security, reduce dependence on foreign sources, and maintain a favorable balance of payments in world trade;

(2) preserve, protect, and develop oil and natural gas resources in the Outer Continental Shelf in a manner which is consistent with the need (A) to make such resources available to meet the Nation’s energy needs as rapidly as possible, (B) to balance orderly energy resource development with protection of the human, marine, and coastal environments, (C) to insure the public a fair and equitable return on the resources of the Outer Continental Shelf, and (D) to preserve and maintain free enterprise competition;

(3) encourage development of new and improved technology for energy resource production which will eliminate or minimize risk of damage to the human, marine, and coastal environments;

(4) provide States, and through States, local governments, which are impacted by Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas exploration, development, and production with comprehensive assistance in order to anticipate and plan for such impact, and thereby to assure adequate protection of the human environment;

(5) assure that States, and through States, local governments, have timely access to information regarding activities on the Outer Continental Shelf, and opportunity to review and comment on decisions relating to such activities, in order to anticipate, ameliorate, and plan for the impacts of such activities;

(6) assure that States, and through States, local governments, which are directly affected by exploration, development, and production of oil and natural gas are provided an opportunity to participate in policy and planning decisions relating to management of the resources of the Outer Continental Shelf;

(7) minimize or eliminate conflicts between the exploration, development, and production of oil and natural gas, and the recovery of other resources such as fish and shellfish;

(8) establish an oilspill liability fund to pay for the prompt removal of any oil spilled or discharged as a result of activities on the Outer Continental Shelf and for any damages to public or private interests caused by such spills or discharges;

(9) insure that the extent of oil and natural gas resources of the Outer Continental Shelf is assessed at the earliest practicable time; and

(10) establish a fishermen’s contingency fund to pay for damages to commercial fishing vessels and gear due to Outer Continental Shelf activities.

(Pub. L. 95–372, title I, § 102, Sept. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 631.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in opening provision, was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 95–372, Sept. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 629, known as the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Amendments of 1978, which enacted this chapter, sections 1344 to 1356 of this title, and section 237 of Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining, amended sections 1331 to 1334, 1337, 1340, and 1343 of this title, sections 1456, 1456a, and 1464 of Title 16, Conservation, and section 6213 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 1348 and 1811 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1801 of this title and Tables.


