§ 765a. Signatory role(a) Limitations on signatories(1) National security limitationsThe Federal Communications Commission, after a public interest determination, in consultation with the executive branch, may restrict foreign ownership of a United States signatory if the Commission determines that not to do so would constitute a threat to national security.


(2) No signatories requiredThe United States Government shall not require signatories to represent the United States in INTELSAT or Inmarsat or in any successor entities after a pro-competitive privatization is achieved consistent with sections 763, 763a, and 763c 11 See References in Text note below. of this title.



(b) Clarification of privileges and immunities of COMSAT(1) Generally not immunizedNotwithstanding any other law or executive agreement, COMSAT shall not be entitled to any privileges or immunities under the laws of the United States or any State on the basis of its status as a signatory of INTELSAT or Inmarsat.


(2) Limited immunityCOMSAT or any successor in interest shall not be liable for action taken by it in carrying out the specific, written instruction of the United States issued in connection with its relationships and activities with foreign governments, international entities, and the intergovernmental satellite organizations.


(3) No joint or several liabilityIf COMSAT is found liable for any action taken in its status as a signatory or a representative of the party to INTELSAT, any such liability shall be limited to the portion of the judgment that corresponds to COMSAT’s percentage of the ownership of INTELSAT at the time the activity began which lead to the liability.


(4) Provisions prospectiveParagraph (1) shall not apply with respect to liability for any action taken by COMSAT before March 17, 2000.



(c) Parity of treatmentNotwithstanding any other law or executive agreement, the Commission shall have the authority to impose similar regulatory fees on the United States signatory which it imposes on other entities providing similar services.


(Pub. L. 87–624, title VI, § 642, as added Pub. L. 106–180, § 3, Mar. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 55.)


References in TextSection 763c of this title, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), was amended generally by Pub. L. 109–34, § 3, July 12, 2005, 119 Stat. 377, and no longer relates to specific criteria for Inmarsat privatization.


