§ 7381l. National Laboratories Centers of Excellence in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics education(a) Definition of high-need public secondary schoolIn this section, the term “high-need public secondary school” means a secondary school—(1) with a high concentration of low-income individuals (as defined in section 6537 of title 20); or

(2) designated with a school locale code of 41, 42, or 43, as determined by the Secretary of Education.


(b) EstablishmentThe Secretary shall establish at each of the National Laboratories a program to support a Center of Excellence in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (referred to in this section as a “Center of Excellence”) in at least 1 high-need public secondary school located in the region served by the National Laboratory to provide assistance in accordance with subsection (f).


(c) Collaboration(1) In generalTo comply with subsection (g), each high-need public secondary school selected as a Center of Excellence and the National Laboratory shall form a partnership with a school, department, or program of education at an institution of higher education.


(2) Nonprofit entitiesThe partnership may include a nonprofit entity with demonstrated experience and effectiveness in science or mathematics, as agreed to by other members of the partnership.



(d) Selection(1) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Director, shall establish criteria to guide the National Laboratories in selecting the sites for Centers of Excellence.


(2) ProcessA National Laboratory shall select a site for a Center of Excellence through an open, widely-publicized, and competitive process.



(e) GoalsThe Secretary shall establish goals and performance assessments for each Center of Excellence authorized under subsection (b).


(f) AssistanceConsistent with sections 7381b and 7381c of this title, the Director shall make available necessary assistance for a program established under this section through the use of scientific and engineering staff of a National Laboratory, including the use of staff—(1) to assist teachers in teaching a course at a Center of Excellence in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics; and

(2) to use National Laboratory scientific equipment in the teaching of the course.


(g) Special rulesA Center of Excellence in a region shall ensure—(1) provision of clinical practicum, student teaching, or internship experiences for science, technology, and mathematics teacher candidates as part of the teacher preparation program of the Center of Excellence;

(2) provision of supervision and mentoring for teacher candidates in the teacher preparation program; and

(3) to the maximum extent practicable, provision of professional development for veteran teachers in the public secondary schools in the region.


(h) EvaluationThe Secretary shall consider the results of performance assessments required under subsection (e) in determining the contract award fee of a National Laboratory management and operations contractor.


(i) PlanThe Director shall—(1) develop an evaluation and accountability plan for the activities funded under this section that objectively measures the impact of the activities; and

(2) disseminate information obtained from those measurements.


(j) No effect on similar programsNothing in this section displaces or otherwise affects any similar program being carried out as of August 9, 2007, at any National Laboratory under any other provision of law.


(Pub. L. 101–510, div. C, title XXXI, § 3181, as added Pub. L. 110–69, title V, § 5003(d)(3), Aug. 9, 2007, 121 Stat. 607.)
