§ 5651. Authority to make grants(a) Grants to eligible StatesThe Administrator may make grants to eligible States, from funds allocated under section 5652 of this title, for the purpose of providing financial assistance to eligible entities to carry out projects designed to prevent juvenile delinquency, including—(1) projects that provide treatment (including treatment for mental health problems) to juvenile offenders, and juveniles who are at risk of becoming juvenile offenders, who are victims of child abuse or neglect or who have experienced violence in their homes, at school, or in the community, and to their families, in order to reduce the likelihood that such juveniles will commit violations of law;

(2) educational projects or supportive services for delinquent or other juveniles—(A) to encourage juveniles to remain in elementary and secondary schools or in alternative learning situations in educational settings;

(B) to provide services to assist juveniles in making the transition to the world of work and self-sufficiency;

(C) to assist in identifying learning difficulties (including learning disabilities);

(D) to prevent unwarranted and arbitrary suspensions and expulsions;

(E) to encourage new approaches and techniques with respect to the prevention of school violence and vandalism;

(F) which assist law enforcement personnel and juvenile justice personnel to more effectively recognize and provide for learning-disabled and other juveniles with disabilities;

(G) which develop locally coordinated policies and programs among education, juvenile justice, and social service agencies; or

(H) to provide services to juveniles with serious mental and emotional disturbances (SED) in need of mental health services;


(3) projects which expand the use of probation officers—(A) particularly for the purpose of permitting nonviolent juvenile offenders (including status offenders) to remain at home with their families as an alternative to incarceration or institutionalization; and

(B) to ensure that juveniles follow the terms of their probation;


(4) counseling, training, and mentoring programs, which may be in support of academic tutoring, vocational and technical training, and drug and violence prevention counseling, that are designed to link at-risk juveniles, juvenile offenders, or juveniles who have a parent or legal guardian who is or was incarcerated in a Federal, State, or local correctional facility or who is otherwise under the jurisdiction of a Federal, State, or local criminal justice system, particularly juveniles residing in low-income and high-crime areas and juveniles experiencing educational failure, with responsible individuals (such as law enforcement officers, Department of Defense personnel, individuals working with local businesses, and individuals working with community-based and faith-based organizations and agencies) who are properly screened and trained;

(5) community-based projects and services (including literacy and social service programs) which work with juvenile offenders and juveniles who are at risk of becoming juvenile offenders, including those from families with limited English-speaking proficiency, their parents, their siblings, and other family members during and after incarceration of the juvenile offenders, in order to strengthen families, to allow juvenile offenders to be retained in their homes, and to prevent the involvement of other juvenile family members in delinquent activities;

(6) projects designed to provide for the treatment (including mental health services) of juveniles for dependence on or abuse of alcohol, drugs, or other harmful substances;

(7) projects which leverage funds to provide scholarships for postsecondary education and training for low-income juveniles who reside in neighborhoods with high rates of poverty, violence, and drug-related crimes;

(8) projects which provide for an initial intake screening of each juvenile taken into custody—(A) to determine the likelihood that such juvenile will commit a subsequent offense; and

(B) to provide appropriate interventions (including mental health services) to prevent such juvenile from committing subsequent offenses;


(9) projects (including school- or community-based projects) that are designed to prevent, and reduce the rate of, the participation of juveniles in gangs that commit crimes (particularly violent crimes), that unlawfully use firearms and other weapons, or that unlawfully traffic in drugs and that involve, to the extent practicable, families and other community members (including law enforcement personnel and members of the business community) in the activities conducted under such projects;

(10) comprehensive juvenile justice and delinquency prevention projects that meet the needs of juveniles through the collaboration of the many local service systems juveniles encounter, including schools, courts, law enforcement agencies, child protection agencies, mental health agencies, welfare services, health care agencies (including collaboration on appropriate prenatal care for pregnant juvenile offenders), private nonprofit agencies, and public recreation agencies offering services to juveniles;

(11) to develop, implement, and support, in conjunction with public and private agencies, organizations, and businesses, projects for the employment of juveniles and referral to job training programs (including referral to Federal job training programs);

(12) delinquency prevention activities which involve youth clubs, sports, recreation and parks, peer counseling and teaching, the arts, leadership development, community service, volunteer service, before- and after-school programs, violence prevention activities, mediation skills training, camping, environmental education, ethnic or cultural enrichment, tutoring, and academic enrichment;

(13) to establish policies and systems to incorporate relevant child protective services records into juvenile justice records for purposes of establishing treatment plans for juvenile offenders;

(14) programs that encourage social competencies, problem-solving skills, and communication skills, youth leadership, and civic involvement;

(15) programs that focus on the needs of young girls at-risk of delinquency or status offenses;

(16) projects which provide for—(A) an assessment by a qualified mental health professional of incarcerated juveniles who are suspected to be in need of mental health services;

(B) the development of an individualized treatment plan for those incarcerated juveniles determined to be in need of such services;

(C) the inclusion of a discharge plan for incarcerated juveniles receiving mental health services that addresses aftercare services; and

(D) all juveniles receiving psychotropic medications to be under the care of a licensed mental health professional;


(17) after-school programs that provide at-risk juveniles and juveniles in the juvenile justice system with a range of age-appropriate activities, including tutoring, mentoring, and other educational and enrichment activities;

(18) programs related to the establishment and maintenance of a school violence hotline, based on a public-private partnership, that students and parents can use to report suspicious, violent, or threatening behavior to local school and law enforcement authorities;

(19) programs (excluding programs to purchase guns from juveniles) designed to reduce the unlawful acquisition and illegal use of guns by juveniles, including partnerships between law enforcement agencies, health professionals, school officials, firearms manufacturers, consumer groups, faith-based groups and community organizations;

(20) programs designed to prevent animal cruelty by juveniles and to counsel juveniles who commit animal cruelty offenses, including partnerships among law enforcement agencies, animal control officers, social services agencies, and school officials;

(21) programs that provide suicide prevention services for incarcerated juveniles and for juveniles leaving the incarceration system;

(22) programs to establish partnerships between State educational agencies and local educational agencies for the design and implementation of character education and training programs that reflect the values of parents, teachers, and local communities, and incorporate elements of good character, including honesty, citizenship, courage, justice, respect, personal responsibility, and trustworthiness;

(23) programs that foster strong character development in at-risk juveniles and juveniles in the juvenile justice system;

(24) local programs that provide for immediate psychological evaluation and follow-up treatment (including evaluation and treatment during a mandatory holding period for not less than 24 hours) for juveniles who bring a gun on school grounds without permission from appropriate school authorities; and

(25) other activities that are likely to prevent juvenile delinquency.


(b) Grants to eligible Indian tribesThe Administrator may make grants to eligible Indian tribes from funds allocated under section 5652(b) of this title, to carry out projects of the kinds described in subsection (a) of this section.


(Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 241, as added Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12210(4), Nov. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 1880.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 5651, Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 241, Sept. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 1125; Pub. L. 95–115, §§ 3(a)(3)(A), (5), 5(a), (f), Oct. 3, 1977, 91 Stat. 1048, 1049, 1056, 1057; Pub. L. 96–509, § 19(j), Dec. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 2765; Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 631, Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 2118; Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7259, Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4441; Pub. L. 102–586, § 2(g)(1), Nov. 4, 1992, 106 Stat. 4994, related to the National Institute for Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12210(1), Nov. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 1880.

Effective DatePart effective on the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, and applicable only with respect to fiscal years beginning on or after the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, see section 12223 of Pub. L. 107–273, as amended, set out as an Effective Date of 2002 Amendment note under section 5601 of this title.


