“SEC. 406. PAYMENTS TO ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.“(a) In General.—Subject to the limitations under subsection (d), not later than 20 days after the date on which a determination is made by the Special Master regarding the amount of compensation due a claimant under this title, the Special Master shall authorize payment to such claimant of the amount determined with respect to the claimant.

“(b) Payment Authority.—This title constitutes budget authority in advance of appropriations Acts in the amounts provided under subsection (d)(1) and represents the obligation of the Federal Government to provide for the payment of amounts for compensation under this title subject to the limitations under subsection (d).

“(c) Additional Funding.—“(1) In general.—The Attorney General is authorized to accept such amounts as may be contributed by individuals, business concerns, or other entities to carry out this title, under such terms and conditions as the Attorney General may impose.

“(2) Use of separate account.—In making payments under this section, amounts contained in any account containing funds provided under paragraph (1) shall be used prior to using appropriated amounts.


“(d) Limitation.—“(1) In general.—The total amount of Federal funds paid for compensation under this title, with respect to claims filed on or after the date on which the regulations are updated under section 407(b), shall not exceed $2,775,000,000. Of such amounts, not to exceed $875,000,000 shall be available to pay such claims during the 5-year period beginning on such date.

“(2) Pro-ration and payment of remaining claims.—“(A) In general.—The Special Master shall ratably reduce the amount of compensation due claimants under this title in a manner to ensure, to the extent possible, that—“(i) all claimants who, before application of the limitation under the second sentence of paragraph (1), would have been determined to be entitled to a payment under this title during such 5-year period, receive a payment during such period; and

“(ii) the total amount of all such payments made during such 5-year period do not exceed the amount available under the second sentence of paragraph (1) to pay claims during such period.


“(B) Payment of remainder of claim amounts.—In any case in which the amount of a claim is ratably reduced pursuant to subparagraph (A), on or after the first day after the 5-year period described in paragraph (1), but in no event later than 1 year after such 5-year period, the Special Master shall pay to the claimant the amount that is equal to the difference between—“(i) the amount that the claimant would have been paid under this title during such period without regard to the limitation under the second sentence of paragraph (1) applicable to such period; and

“(ii) the amount the claimant was paid under this title during such period.


“(C) Termination.—Upon completion of all payments pursuant to this subsection, the Victim’s Compensation Fund shall be permanently closed.



“(e) Attorney Fees.—“(1) In general.—Notwithstanding any contract, the representative of an individual may not charge, for services rendered in connection with the claim of an individual under this title, more than 10 percent of an award made under this title on such claim.

“(2) Limitation.—“(A) In general.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), in the case of an individual who was charged a legal fee in connection with the settlement of a civil action described in section 405(c)(3)(C)(iii), the representative of the individual may not charge any amount for compensation for services rendered in connection with a claim filed under this title.

“(B) Exception.—If the legal fee charged in connection with the settlement of a civil action described in section 405(c)(3)(C)(iii) of an individual is less than 10 percent of the aggregate amount of compensation awarded to such individual through such settlement, the representative of such individual may charge an amount for compensation for services rendered to the extent that such amount charged is not more than—“(i) 10 percent of such aggregate amount through the settlement, minus

“(ii) the total amount of all legal fees charged for services rendered in connection with such settlement.



“(3) Discretion to lower fee.—In the event that the special master [probably should be capitalized] finds that the fee limit set by paragraph (1) or (2) provides excessive compensation for services rendered in connection with such claim, the Special Master may, in the discretion of the Special Master, award as reasonable compensation for services rendered an amount lesser than that permitted for in paragraph (1).


