§ 300u–13. Community transformation grants(a) In generalThe Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”), acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (referred to in this section as the “Director”), shall award competitive grants to State and local governmental agencies and community-based organizations for the implementation, evaluation, and dissemination of evidence-based community preventive health activities in order to reduce chronic disease rates, prevent the development of secondary conditions, address health disparities, and develop a stronger evidence-base of effective prevention programming, with not less than 20 percent of such grants being awarded to rural and frontier areas.


(b) EligibilityTo be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), an entity shall—(1) be—(A) a State governmental agency;

(B) a local governmental agency;

(C) a national network of community-based organizations;

(D) a State or local non-profit organization; or

(E) an Indian tribe; and


(2) submit to the Director an application at such time, in such a manner, and containing such information as the Director may require, including a description of the program to be carried out under the grant; and

(3) demonstrate a history or capacity, if funded, to develop relationships necessary to engage key stakeholders from multiple sectors within and beyond health care and across a community, such as healthy futures corps and health care providers.


(c) Use of funds(1) In generalAn eligible entity shall use amounts received under a grant under this section to carry out programs described in this subsection.


(2) Community transformation plan(A) In generalAn eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall submit to the Director (for approval) a detailed plan that includes the policy, environmental, programmatic, and 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma. as appropriate 1 infrastructure changes needed to promote healthy living and reduce disparities.


(B) ActivitiesActivities within the plan may focus on (but not be limited to)—(i) creating healthier school environments, including increasing healthy food options, physical activity opportunities, promotion of healthy lifestyle, emotional wellness, and prevention curricula, and activities to prevent chronic diseases;

(ii) creating the infrastructure to support active living and access to nutritious foods in a safe environment;

(iii) developing and promoting programs targeting a variety of age levels to increase access to nutrition, physical activity and smoking cessation, improve social and emotional wellness, enhance safety in a community, or address any other chronic disease priority area identified by the grantee;

(iv) assessing and implementing worksite wellness programming and incentives;

(v) working to highlight healthy options at restaurants and other food venues;

(vi) prioritizing strategies to reduce racial and ethnic disparities, including social, economic, and geographic determinants of health; and

(vii) addressing special populations needs, including all age groups and individuals with disabilities, and individuals in urban, rural, and frontier areas.



(3) Community-based prevention health activities(A) In generalAn eligible entity shall use amounts received under a grant under this section to implement a variety of programs, policies, and infrastructure improvements to promote healthier lifestyles.


(B) ActivitiesAn eligible entity shall implement activities detailed in the community transformation plan under paragraph (2).


(C) In-kind supportAn eligible entity may provide in-kind resources such as staff, equipment, or office space in carrying out activities under this section.



(4) Evaluation(A) In generalAn eligible entity shall use amounts provided under a grant under this section to conduct activities to measure changes in the prevalence of chronic disease risk factors among community members participating in preventive health activities 22 So in original. Probably should be followed by a period.


(B) Types of measuresIn carrying out subparagraph (A), the eligible entity shall, with respect to residents in the community, measure—(i) changes in weight;

(ii) changes in proper nutrition;

(iii) changes in physical activity;

(iv) changes in tobacco use prevalence;

(v) changes in emotional well-being and overall mental health;

(vi) other factors using community-specific data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey; and

(vii) other factors as determined by the Secretary.


(C) ReportingAn eligible entity shall annually submit to the Director a report containing an evaluation of activities carried out under the grant.



(5) DisseminationA grantee under this section shall—(A) meet at least annually in regional or national meetings to discuss challenges, best practices, and lessons learned with respect to activities carried out under the grant; and

(B) develop models for the replication of successful programs and activities and the mentoring of other eligible entities.



(d) Training(1) In generalThe Director shall develop a program to provide training for eligible entities on effective strategies for the prevention and control of chronic disease and the link between physical, emotional, and social well-being.


(2) Community transformation planThe Director shall provide appropriate feedback and technical assistance to grantees to establish community transformation plans 2


(3) EvaluationThe Director shall provide a literature review and framework for the evaluation of programs conducted as part of the grant program under this section, in addition to working with academic institutions or other entities with expertise in outcome evaluation.



(e) ProhibitionA grantee shall not use funds provided under a grant under this section to create video games or to carry out any other activities that may lead to higher rates of obesity or inactivity.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal year 33 So in original. Probably should be “years”. 2010 through 2014.


(Pub. L. 111–148, title IV, § 4201, title X, § 10403, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 564, 975.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.

Amendments2010—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 111–148, § 10403(1), inserted “, with not less than 20 percent of such grants being awarded to rural and frontier areas” before period at end.
Subsec. (c)(2)(B)(vii). Pub. L. 111–148, § 10403(2), substituted “urban, rural, and frontier areas” for “both urban and rural areas”.
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 111–148, § 10403(3), substituted “each of fiscal year” for “each fiscal years”.


