§ 17253. Geologic sequestration training and research(a) Study(1) In generalThe Secretary shall enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences to undertake a study that—(A) defines an interdisciplinary program in geology, engineering, hydrology, environmental science, and related disciplines that will support the Nation’s capability to capture and sequester carbon dioxide from anthropogenic sources;

(B) addresses undergraduate and graduate education, especially to help develop graduate level programs of research and instruction that lead to advanced degrees with emphasis on geologic sequestration science;

(C) develops guidelines for proposals from colleges and universities with substantial capabilities in the required disciplines that seek to implement geologic sequestration science programs that advance the Nation’s capacity to address carbon management through geologic sequestration science; and

(D) outlines a budget and recommendations for how much funding will be necessary to establish and carry out the grant program under subsection (b).


(2) ReportNot later than 1 year after December 19, 2007, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress a copy of the results of the study provided by the National Academy of Sciences under paragraph (1).


(3) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for carrying out this subsection $1,000,000 for fiscal year 2008.



(b) Grant program(1) EstablishmentThe Secretary shall establish a competitive grant program through which colleges and universities may apply for and receive 4-year grants for—(A) salary and startup costs for newly designated faculty positions in an integrated geologic carbon sequestration science program; and

(B) internships for graduate students in geologic sequestration science.


(2) RenewalGrants under this subsection shall be renewable for up to 2 additional 3-year terms, based on performance criteria, established by the National Academy of Sciences study conducted under subsection (a), that include the number of graduates of such programs.


(3) Interface with regional geologic carbon sequestration partnershipsTo the greatest extent possible, geologic carbon sequestration science programs supported under this subsection shall interface with the research of the Regional Carbon Sequestration Partnerships operated by the Department to provide internships and practical training in carbon capture and geologic sequestration.


(4) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for carrying out this subsection such sums as may be necessary.



(Pub. L. 110–140, title VII, § 705, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1709.)
