§ 2021. Cooperation with States(a) PurposeIt is the purpose of this section—(1) to recognize the interests of the States in the peaceful uses of atomic energy, and to clarify the respective responsibilities under this chapter of the States and the Commission with respect to the regulation of byproduct, source, and special nuclear materials;

(2) to recognize the need, and establish programs for, cooperation between the States and the Commission with respect to control of radiation hazards associated with use of such materials;

(3) to promote an orderly regulatory pattern between the Commission and State governments with respect to nuclear development and use and regulation of byproduct, source, and special nuclear materials;

(4) to establish procedures and criteria for discontinuance of certain of the Commission’s regulatory responsibilities with respect to byproduct, source, and special nuclear materials, and the assumption thereof by the States;

(5) to provide for coordination of the development of radiation standards for the guidance of Federal agencies and cooperation with the States; and

(6) to recognize that, as the States improve their capabilities to regulate effectively such materials, additional legislation may be desirable.


(b) Agreements with StatesExcept as provided in subsection (c) of this section, the Commission is authorized to enter into agreements with the Governor of any State providing for discontinuance of the regulatory authority of the Commission under subchapters V, VI, and VII of this division, and section 2201 of this title, with respect to any one or more of the following materials within the State:(1) Byproduct materials (as defined in section 2014(e) of this title).

(2) Source materials.

(3) Special nuclear materials in quantities not sufficient to form a critical mass.


During the duration of such an agreement it is recognized that the State shall have authority to regulate the materials covered by the agreement for the protection of the public health and safety from radiation hazards.

(c) Commission regulation of certain activitiesNo agreement entered into pursuant to subsection (b) of this section shall provide for discontinuance of any authority and the Commission shall retain authority and responsibility with respect to regulation of—(1) the construction and operation of any production or utilization facility or any uranium enrichment facility;

(2) the export from or import into the United States of byproduct, source, or special nuclear material, or of any production or utilization facility;

(3) the disposal into the ocean or sea of byproduct, source, or special nuclear waste materials as defined in regulations or orders of the Commission;

(4) the disposal of such other byproduct, source, or special nuclear material as the Commission determines by regulation or order should, because of the hazards or potential hazards thereof, not be so disposed of without a license from the Commission.


The Commission shall also retain authority under any such agreement to make a determination that all applicable standards and requirements have been met prior to termination of a license for byproduct material, as defined in section 2014(e)(2) of this title. Notwithstanding any agreement between the Commission and any State pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, the Commission is authorized by rule, regulation, or order to require that the manufacturer, processor, or producer of any equipment, device, commodity, or other product containing source, byproduct, or special nuclear material shall not transfer possession or control of such product except pursuant to a license issued by the Commission.

(d) ConditionsThe Commission shall enter into an agreement under subsection (b) of this section with any State if—(1) The 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. Governor of that State certifies that the State has a program for the control of radiation hazards adequate to protect the public health and safety with respect to the materials within the State covered by the proposed agreement, and that the State desires to assume regulatory responsibility for such materials; and

(2) the Commission finds that the State program is in accordance with the requirements of subsection (o) of this section and in all other respects compatible with the Commission’s program for the regulation of such materials, and that the State program is adequate to protect the public health and safety with respect to the materials covered by the proposed agreement.


(e) Publication in Federal Register; comment of interested persons(1) Before any agreement under subsection (b) of this section is signed by the Commission, the terms of the proposed agreement and of proposed exemptions pursuant to subsection (f) of this section shall be published once each week for four consecutive weeks in the Federal Register; and such opportunity for comment by interested persons on the proposed agreement and exemptions shall be allowed as the Commission determines by regulation or order to be appropriate.

(2) Each proposed agreement shall include the proposed effective date of such proposed agreement or exemptions. The agreement and exemptions shall be published in the Federal Register within thirty days after signature by the Commission and the Governor.


(f) ExemptionsThe Commission is authorized and directed, by regulation or order, to grant such exemptions from the licensing requirements contained in subchapters V, VI, and VII of this division, and from its regulations applicable to licensees as the Commission finds necessary or appropriate to carry out any agreement entered into pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.


(g) Compatible radiation standardsThe Commission is authorized and directed to cooperate with the States in the formulation of standards for protection against hazards of radiation to assure that State and Commission programs for protection against hazards of radiation will be coordinated and compatible.


(h) Consultative, advisory, and miscellaneous functions of Administrator of Environmental Protection AgencyThe Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall consult qualified scientists and experts in radiation matters, including the President of the National Academy of Sciences, the Chairman of the National Committee on Radiation Protection and Measurement, and qualified experts in the field of biology and medicine and in the field of health physics. The Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, or his designee, is authorized to attend meetings with, participate in the deliberations of, and to advise the Administrator. The Administrator shall advise the President with respect to radiation matters, directly or indirectly affecting health, including guidance for all Federal agencies in the formulation of radiation standards and in the establishment and execution of programs of cooperation with States. The Administrator shall also perform such other functions as the President may assign to him by Executive order.


(i) Inspections and other functions; training and other assistanceThe Commission in carrying out its licensing and regulatory responsibilities under this chapter is authorized to enter into agreements with any State, or group of States, to perform inspections or other functions on a cooperative basis as the Commission deems appropriate. The Commission is also authorized to provide training, with or without charge, to employees of, and such other assistance to, any State or political subdivision thereof or group of States as the Commission deems appropriate. Any such provision or assistance by the Commission shall take into account the additional expenses that may be incurred by a State as a consequence of the State’s entering into an agreement with the Commission pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.


(j) Reserve power to terminate or suspend agreements; emergency situations; State nonaction on causes of danger; authority exercisable only during emergency and commensurate with danger(1) The Commission, upon its own initiative after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing to the State with which an agreement under subsection (b) of this section has become effective, or upon request of the Governor of such State, may terminate or suspend all or part of its agreement with the State and reassert the licensing and regulatory authority vested in it under this chapter, if the Commission finds that (1) such termination or suspension is required to protect the public health and safety, or (2) the State has not complied with one or more of the requirements of this section. The Commission shall periodically review such agreements and actions taken by the States under the agreements to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section.

(2) The Commission, upon its own motion or upon request of the Governor of any State, may, after notifying the Governor, temporarily suspend all or part of its agreement with the State without notice or hearing if, in the judgment of the Commission:(A) an emergency situation exists with respect to any material covered by such an agreement creating danger which requires immediate action to protect the health or safety of persons either within or outside the State, and

(B) the State has failed to take steps necessary to contain or eliminate the cause of the danger within a reasonable time after the situation arose.


A temporary suspension under this paragraph shall remain in effect only for such time as the emergency situation exists and shall authorize the Commission to exercise its authority only to the extent necessary to contain or eliminate the danger.


(k) State regulation of activities for certain purposesNothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authority of any State or local agency to regulate activities for purposes other than protection against radiation hazards.


(l) Commission regulated activities; notice of filing; hearingWith respect to each application for Commission license authorizing an activity as to which the Commission’s authority is continued pursuant to subsection (c) of this section, the Commission shall give prompt notice to the State or States in which the activity will be conducted of the filing of the license application; and shall afford reasonable opportunity for State representatives to offer evidence, interrogate witnesses, and advise the Commission as to the application without requiring such representatives to take a position for or against the granting of the application.


(m) Limitation of agreements and exemptionsNo agreement entered into under subsection (b) of this section, and no exemption granted pursuant to subsection (f) of this section, shall affect the authority of the Commission under section 2201(b) or (i) of this title to issue rules, regulations, or orders to protect the common defense and security, to protect restricted data or to guard against the loss or diversion of special nuclear material. For purposes of section 2201(i) of this title, activities covered by exemptions granted pursuant to subsection (f) of this section shall be deemed to constitute activities authorized pursuant to this chapter; and special nuclear material acquired by any person pursuant to such an exemption shall be deemed to have been acquired pursuant to section 2073 of this title.


(n) “State” and “agreement” definedAs used in this section, the term “State” means any State, Territory, or possession of the United States, the Canal Zone, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia. As used in this section, the term “agreement” includes any amendment to any agreement.


(o) State compliance requirements: compliance with section 2113(b) of this title and health and environmental protection standards; procedures for licenses, rulemaking, and license impact analysis; amendment of agreements for transfer of State collected funds; proceedings duplication restriction; alternative requirementsIn the licensing and regulation of byproduct material, as defined in section 2014(e)(2) of this title, or of any activity which results in the production of byproduct material as so defined under an agreement entered into pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, a State shall require—(1) compliance with the requirements of subsection (b) of section 2113 of this title (respecting ownership of byproduct material and land), and

(2) compliance with standards which shall be adopted by the State for the protection of the public health, safety, and the environment from hazards associated with such material which are equivalent, to the extent practicable, or more stringent than, standards adopted and enforced by the Commission for the same purpose, including requirements and standards promulgated by the Commission and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to sections 2113, 2114, and 2022 of this title, and

(3) procedures which—(A) in the case of licenses, provide procedures under State law which include—(i) an opportunity, after public notice, for written comments and a public hearing, with a transcript,

(ii) an opportunity for cross examination, and

(iii) a written determination which is based upon findings included in such determination and upon the evidence presented during the public comment period and which is subject to judicial review;


(B) in the case of rulemaking, provide an opportunity for public participation through written comments or a public hearing and provide for judicial review of the rule;

(C) require for each license which has a significant impact on the human environment a written analysis (which shall be available to the public before the commencement of any such proceedings) of the impact of such license, including any activities conducted pursuant thereto, on the environment, which analysis shall include—(i) an assessment of the radiological and nonradiological impacts to the public health of the activities to be conducted pursuant to such license;

(ii) an assessment of any impact on any waterway and groundwater resulting from such activities;

(iii) consideration of alternatives, including alternative sites and engineering methods, to the activities to be conducted pursuant to such license; and

(iv) consideration of the long-term impacts, including decommissioning, decontamination, and reclamation impacts, associated with activities to be conducted pursuant to such license, including the management of any byproduct material, as defined by section 2014(e)(2) of this title; and


(D) prohibit any major construction activity with respect to such material prior to complying with the provisions of subparagraph (C).



If any State under such agreement imposes upon any licensee any requirement for the payment of funds to such State for the reclamation or long-term maintenance and monitoring of such material, and if transfer to the United States of such material is required in accordance with section 2113(b) of this title, such agreement shall be amended by the Commission to provide that such State shall transfer to the United States upon termination of the license issued to such licensee the total amount collected by such State from such licensee for such purpose. If such payments are required, they must be sufficient to ensure compliance with the standards established by the Commission pursuant to section 2201(x) of this title. No State shall be required under paragraph (3) to conduct proceedings concerning any license or regulation which would duplicate proceedings conducted by the Commission. In adopting requirements pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection with respect to sites at which ores are processed primarily for their source material content or which are used for the disposal of byproduct material as defined in section 2014(e)(2) of this title, the State may adopt alternatives (including, where appropriate, site-specific alternatives) to the requirements adopted and enforced by the Commission for the same purpose if, after notice and opportunity for public hearing, the Commission determines that such alternatives will achieve a level of stabilization and containment of the sites concerned, and a level of protection for public health, safety, and the environment from radiological and nonradiological hazards associated with such sites, which is equivalent to, to the extent practicable, or more stringent than the level which would be achieved by standards and requirements adopted and enforced by the Commission for the same purpose and any final standards promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with section 2022 of this title. Such alternative State requirements may take into account local or regional conditions, including geology, topography, hydrology and meteorology.

(Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724, title I, § 274, as added Pub. L. 86–373, § 1, Sept. 23, 1959, 73 Stat. 688; amended 1970 Reorg. Plan No. 3, §§ 2(a)(7), 6(2), eff. Dec. 2, 1970, 35 F.R. 15623, 84 Stat. 2086; Pub. L. 95–604, title II, § 204(a)–(e)(1), (f), Nov. 8, 1978, 92 Stat. 3036–3038; Pub. L. 96–295, title II, § 205, June 30, 1980, 94 Stat. 787; Pub. L. 97–415, § 19(a), Jan. 4, 1983, 96 Stat. 2078; renumbered title I and amended Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, § 902(a)(6), (8), Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 2944; Pub. L. 109–58, title VI, § 651(e)(2), Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 807.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1), (i), (j)(1), and (m), was in the original “this Act”, meaning act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724, as added by act Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1, 68 Stat. 919, known as the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2011 of this title and Tables.
For definition of Canal Zone, referred to in subsec. (n), see section 3602(b) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

Codification
In subsec. (h) of this section, provisions for the establishment of a Federal Radiation Council and for the designation of its Chairman and members have been omitted and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency has been substituted for the Council as the person charged with the responsibility of carrying out the functions of the Council pursuant to Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1970, §§ 2(a)(7), 6(2), eff. Dec. 2, 1970, 35 F.R. 15623, 84 Stat. 2086, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, which abolished the Federal Radiation Council and transferred its functions to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Administration.

Amendments2005—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 109–58 substituted “State:” for “State—” in introductory provisions, added pars. (1) to (3), and struck out former pars. (1) to (4) which read as follows:
“(1) byproduct materials as defined in section 2014(e)(1) of this title;
“(2) byproduct materials as defined in section 2014(e)(2) of this title;
“(3) source materials;
“(4) special nuclear materials in quantities not sufficient to form a critical mass.”
1992—Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 102–486, § 902(a)(6), inserted before semicolon at end “or any uranium enrichment facility”.
1983—Subsec. (o). Pub. L. 97–415 inserted provisions relating to the adoption of equivalent alternative requirements by the States.
1980—Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 96–295 designated existing provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).
1978—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95–604, § 204(a), inserted in par. (1) “as defined in section 2014(e)(1) of this title” after “byproduct materials”, added par. (2), and redesignated former pars. (2) and (3) as (3) and (4), respectively.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 95–604, § 204(f), required the Commission to retain authority under the agreement to make a determination that all applicable standards and requirements have been met prior to termination of a license for byproduct material as defined in section 2014(e)(2) of this title.
Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 95–604, § 204(b), inserted “in accordance with the requirements of subsection (o) of this section and in all other respects” before “compatible”.
Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 95–604, § 204(d), inserted “all or part of” after “suspend”, designated provision requiring termination or suspension be necessary to protect the public health and safety as cl. (1), added cl. (2), and inserted provision requiring the Commission to periodically review the agreements and actions taken by the States under the agreements to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section.
Subsec. (n). Pub. L. 95–604, § 204(c), inserted definition of “agreement”.
Subsec. (o). Pub. L. 95–604, § 204(e)(1), added subsec. (o).

Effective Date of 1978 AmendmentSection 204(e)(2) of Pub. L. 95–604, as added by Pub. L. 96–106, § 22(d), Nov. 9, 1979, 93 Stat. 800, provided that: “The provisions of the amendment made by paragraph (1) of this subsection (which adds a new subsection o. to section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [this section]) shall apply only to the maximum extent practicable during the three-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 8, 1978].”

Amendment by Pub. L. 95–604 effective Nov. 8, 1978, see section 208 of Pub. L. 95–604, set out as a note under section 2014 of this title.

State Authorities and Agreements Respecting Byproduct Material; Entry and Effective Dates of AgreementsPub. L. 95–604, title II, § 204(g), (h), Nov. 8, 1978, 92 Stat. 3038, as amended by Pub. L. 96–106, § 22(a), (b), Nov. 9, 1979, 93 Stat. 799; Pub. L. 97–415, § 19(b), Jan. 4, 1983, 96 Stat. 2079, provided that:
“(g) Nothing in any amendment made by this section [amending this section] shall preclude any State from exercising any other authority as permitted under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [this chapter] respecting any byproduct material, as defined in section 11 e. (2) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [section 2014(e)(2) of this title].

“(h)(1) During the three-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 8, 1978], notwithstanding any other provision of this title [See Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note set out under section 2014 of this title], any State may exercise any authority under State law (including authority exercised pursuant to an agreement entered into pursuant to section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [this section]) respecting (A) byproduct material, as defined in section 11 e. (2) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [section 2014(e)(2) of this title], or (B) any activity which results in the production of byproduct material as so defined, in the same manner and to the same extent as permitted before the date of the enactment of this Act, except that such State authority shall be exercised in a manner which, to the extent practicable, is consistent with the requirements of section 274 o. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (as added by section 204(e) of this Act) [subsec. (o) of this section]. The Commission shall have the authority to ensure that such section 274 o. is implemented by any such State to the extent practicable during the three-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act. Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude the Commission or the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency from taking such action under section 275 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [section 2022 of this title] as may be necessary to implement title I of this Act [section 7911 et seq. of this title].

“(2) An agreement entered into with any State as permitted under section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [this section] with respect to byproduct material as defined in section 11 e. (2) of such Act. [section 2014(e)(2) of this title], may be entered into at any time after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 8, 1978] but no such agreement may take effect before the date three years after the date of the enactment of this Act.

“(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title [See Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note set out under section 2014 of this title], where a State assumes or has assumed, pursuant to an agreement entered into under section 274 b. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [subsec. (b) of this section], authority over any activity which results in the production of byproduct material, as defined in section 11 e. (2) of such Act [section 2014(e)(2) of this title], the Commission shall not, until the end of the three-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 8, 1978], have licensing authority over such byproduct material produced in any activity covered by such agreement, unless the agreement is terminated, suspended, or amended to provide for such Federal licensing. If, at the end of such three-year period, a State has not entered into such an agreement with respect to byproduct material, as defined in section 11 e. (2) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, the Commission shall have authority over such byproduct material: Provided, however, That, in the case of a State which has exercised any authority under State law pursuant to an agreement entered into under section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [this section], the State authority over such byproduct material may be terminated, and the Commission authority over such material may be exercised, only after compliance by the Commission with the same procedures as are applicable in the case of termination of agreements under section 274j. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [subsec. (j) of this section].”





Federal Compliance With Pollution Control StandardsFor provisions relating to the responsibility of the head of each Executive agency for compliance with applicable pollution control standards, see Ex. Ord. No. 12088, Oct. 13, 1978, 43 F.R. 47707, set out as a note under section 4321 of this title.


Executive Order No. 12192
Ex. Ord. No. 12192, Feb. 12, 1980, 45 F.R. 9727, which established the State Planning Council on Radioactive Waste Management and provided for its membership, functions, etc., was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 12379, § 13, Aug. 17, 1982, 47 F.R. 36099, set out as a note under section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


