“SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF THE CONFERENCE.“(a) Authority To Call Conference.—Not later than December 31, 2005, the President shall convene the White House Conference on Aging in order to fulfill the purpose set forth in subsection (c) and to make fundamental policy recommendations regarding programs that are important to older individuals and to the families and communities of such individuals.

“(b) Planning and Direction.—The Conference described in subsection (a) shall be planned and conducted under the direction of the Secretary, in cooperation with the Assistant Secretary for Aging, the Director of the National Institute on Aging, the Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration, the Social Security Administrator, and the heads of such other Federal agencies serving older individuals as are appropriate. Planning and conducting the Conference includes the assignment of personnel.

“(c) Purpose.—The purpose of the Conference described in subsection (a) shall be to gather individuals representing the spectrum of thought and experience in the field of aging to—“(1) evaluate the manner in which the objectives of this Act [probably means the Older Americans Act of 1965, Pub. L. 89–73, which enacted this chapter] can be met by using the resources and talents of older individuals, of families and communities of such individuals, and of individuals from the public and private sectors;

“(2) evaluate the manner in which national policies that are related to economic security and health care are prepared so that such policies serve individuals born from 1946 to 1964 and later, as the individuals become older individuals, including an examination of the Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid programs carried out under titles II, XVIII, and XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et seq., 1395 et seq., and 1396 et seq.) in relation to providing services under this Act, and determine how well such policies respond to the needs of older individuals; and

“(3) develop not more than 50 recommendations to guide the President, Congress, and Federal agencies in serving older individuals.


“(d) Conference Participants and Delegates.—“(1) Participants.—In order to carry out the purposes of this section, the Conference shall bring together—“(A) representatives of Federal, State, and local governments,

“(B) professional and lay people who are working in the field of aging, and

“(C) representatives of the general public, particularly older individuals.


“(2) Selection of delegates.—The delegates shall be selected without regard to political affiliation or past partisan activity and shall, to the best of the appointing authority’s ability, be representative of the spectrum of thought in the field of aging. Delegates shall include individuals who are professionals, individuals who are nonprofessionals, minority individuals, individuals from low-income families, representatives of Federal, State, and local governments, and individuals from rural areas. A majority of such delegates shall be age 55 or older.


