§ 4723. Local government programs and grants(a) Population served; amount of grants; executive certification; State grant, conditionsThe Office is authorized to make grants to a general local government, or a combination of general local governments, that serve a population of fifty thousand or more, for up to 75 per centum (or, with respect to fiscal years commencing after the expiration of three years following the effective date of the grant provisions of this chapter, for up to 50 per centum) of the costs of developing and carrying out programs or projects, on the certification of the mayor(s), or chief executive officer(s), of the general local government or combination of local governments that the programs or projects are consistent with the applicable principles set forth in clauses (1)–(6) of the third paragraph of section 4701 of this title, to strengthen the personnel administration of such governments. Such a grant may not be made—(1) if, at the time of submission of an application, the State concerned has an approved plan which, with the agreement of the particular local government concerned, provides for strengthening one or more aspects of personnel administration in that local government, unless the local government concerned has problems which are not met by the previously approved plan and for which, with the agreement of the State government concerned with respect to those aspects of personnel administration covered in the approved plan, it is submitting an application; or

(2) after the State concerned has a statewide plan which has been developed by an appropriate State agency designated or established pursuant to State law which provides such agency with adequate authority, administrative organization, and staffing to develop and administer such a statewide plan, and to provide technical assistance and other appropriate support in carrying out the local components of the plan, and which provides procedures insuring adequate involvement of officials of affected local governments in the development and administration of such a statewide plan, unless the local government concerned has special, unique, or urgent problems which are not met by the approved statewide plan and for which it submits an application for funds to be distributed under section 4766(a) of this title.


Upon the request of a Governor or chief executive authority, a grant to a general local government or combination of such governments in that State may not be made during a period not to exceed ninety days commencing with the date provided in section 4772 of this title, or the date on which official regulations for this chapter are promulgated, whichever date is later: Provided, That the request of the Governor or chief executive authority indicates that he is developing a plan under (1) above, or during a period not to exceed one hundred and eighty days commencing with the date provided in section 4772 of this title, or the date on which official regulations for this chapter are promulgated, whichever date is later, provided the request of the Governor or chief executive authority indicates that he is developing a statewide plan under (2) above.

(b) Application; time of making; information; terms and conditions; waiver; development costs; population servedAn application for a grant from a general local government or a combination of general local governments shall be made at such time or times and shall contain such information as the Office may prescribe. The Office may make a grant under subsection (a) of this section only if the application therefor meets requirements similar to those established in section 4722(b) of this title for a State application for a grant, unless any such requirement is specifically waived by the Office, and the requirements of subsection (c) of this section. Such a grant may cover the costs of developing the program or project covered by the application. The Office may make grants to general local governments, or combinations of such governments, that serve a population of less than fifty thousand, if it finds that such grants will help meet essential needs in programs or projects of national interest and will assist general local governments experiencing special problems in personnel administration related to such programs or projects.


(c) Gubernatorial review of application; disapproval explanationAn application to be submitted to the Office under subsection (b) of this section shall first be submitted by the general local government or combination of such governments to the Governor for review, comments, and recommendations. The Governor may refer the application to the State office designated under section 4722(b)(1) of this title for review. Comments and recommendations (if any) made as a result of the review, and a statement by the general local government or combination of such governments that it has considered the comments and recommendations of the Governor shall accompany the application to the Office. The application need not be accompanied by the comments and recommendations of the Governor if the general local government or combination of such governments certifies to the Office that the application has been before the Governor for review and comment for a period of sixty days without comment by the Governor. An explanation in writing shall be sent to the Governor of a State by the Office whenever the Office does not concur with recommendations of the Governor in approving any local government applications.


(Pub. L. 91–648, title II, § 203, Jan. 5, 1971, 84 Stat. 1912; 1978 Reorg. Plan No. 2, § 102, eff. Jan. 1, 1979, 43 F.R. 36037, 92 Stat. 3783.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 91–648, Jan. 5, 1971, 84 Stat. 1909, known as the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4701 of this title and Tables.
For effective date of the grant provisions of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (a), as being 180 days after Jan. 5, 1971, see section 4772 of this title.


Transfer of Functions
“Office”, meaning Office of Personnel Management, substituted in text for “Commission”, meaning Civil Service Commission, pursuant to Reorg. Plan No. 2 of 1978, § 102, 43 F.R. 36037, 92 Stat. 3783, set out under section 1101 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, which transferred functions vested by statute in Civil Service Commission and Chairman thereof to Director of Office of Personnel Management (except as otherwise specified), effective Jan. 1, 1979, as provided by section 1–102 of Ex. Ord. No. 12107, Dec. 28, 1978, 44 F.R. 1055, set out under section 1101 of Title 5.


