§ 17112. Energy efficiency for data center buildings(a) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Data centerThe term “data center” means any facility that primarily contains electronic equipment used to process, store, and transmit digital information, which may be—(A) a free-standing structure; or

(B) a facility within a larger structure, that uses environmental control equipment to maintain the proper conditions for the operation of electronic equipment.


(2) Data center operatorThe term “data center operator” means any person or government entity that builds or operates a data center or purchases data center services, equipment, and facilities.



(b) Voluntary national information program(1) In generalNot later than 90 days after December 19, 2007, the Secretary and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall, after consulting with information technology industry and other interested parties, initiate a voluntary national information program for those types of data centers and data center equipment and facilities that are widely used and for which there is a potential for significant data center energy savings as a result of the program.


(2) RequirementsThe program described in paragraph (1) shall—(A) address data center efficiency holistically, reflecting the total energy consumption of data centers as whole systems, including both equipment and facilities;

(B) consider prior work and studies undertaken in this area, including by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy;

(C) consistent with the objectives described in paragraph (1), determine the type of data center and data center equipment and facilities to be covered under the program;

(D) produce specifications, measurements, best practices, and benchmarks that will enable data center operators to make more informed decisions about the energy efficiency and costs of data centers, and that take into account—(i) the performance and use of servers, data storage devices, and other information technology equipment;

(ii) the efficiency of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning, cooling, and power conditioning systems, provided that no modification shall be required of a standard then in effect under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.) for any covered heating, ventilation, air-conditioning, cooling or power-conditioning product;

(iii) energy savings from the adoption of software and data management techniques; and

(iv) other factors determined by the organization described in subsection (c);


(E) allow for creation of separate specifications, measurements, and benchmarks based on data center size and function, as well as other appropriate characteristics;

(F) advance the design and implementation of efficiency technologies to the maximum extent economically practical;

(G) provide to data center operators in the private sector and the Federal Government information about best practices and purchasing decisions that reduce the energy consumption of data centers; and

(H) publish the information described in subparagraph (G), which may be disseminated through catalogs, trade publications, the Internet, or other mechanisms, that will allow data center operators to assess the energy consumption and potential cost savings of alternative data centers and data center equipment and facilities.


(3) ProceduresThe program described in paragraph (1) shall be developed in consultation with and coordinated by the organization described in subsection (c) according to commonly accepted procedures for the development of specifications, measurements, and benchmarks.



(c) Data center efficiency organization(1) In generalAfter the establishment of the program described in subsection (b), the Secretary and the Administrator shall jointly designate an information technology industry organization to consult with and to coordinate the program.


(2) RequirementsThe organization designated under paragraph (1), whether preexisting or formed specifically for the purposes of subsection (b), shall—(A) consist of interested parties that have expertise in energy efficiency and in the development, operation, and functionality of computer data centers, information technology equipment, and software, as well as representatives of hardware manufacturers, data center operators, and facility managers;

(B) obtain and address input from Department of Energy National Laboratories or any college, university, research institution, industry association, company, or public interest group with applicable expertise in any of the areas listed in paragraph (1);

(C) follow commonly accepted procedures for the development of specifications and accredited standards development processes;

(D) have a mission to develop and promote energy efficiency for data centers and information technology; and

(E) have the primary responsibility to consult in the development and publishing of the information, measurements, and benchmarks described in subsection (b) and transmission of the information to the Secretary and the Administrator for consideration under subsection (d).



(d) Measurements and specifications(1) In generalThe Secretary and the Administrator shall consider the specifications, measurements, and benchmarks described in subsection (b) for use by the Federal Energy Management Program, the Energy Star Program, and other efficiency programs of the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Agency, respectively.


(2) RejectionsIf the Secretary or the Administrator rejects 1 or more specifications, measurements, or benchmarks described in subsection (b), the rejection shall be made consistent with section 12(d) of the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995 (15 U.S.C. 272 note; Public Law 104–113).


(3) Determination of impracticabilityA determination that a specification, measurement, or benchmark described in subsection (b) is impractical may include consideration of the maximum efficiency that is technologically feasible and economically justified.



(e) MonitoringThe Secretary and the Administrator shall—(1) monitor and evaluate the efforts to develop the program described in subsection (b); and

(2) not later than 3 years after December 19, 2007, make a determination as to whether the program is consistent with the objectives of subsection (b).


(f) Alternative systemIf the Secretary and the Administrator make a determination under subsection (e) that a voluntary national information program for data centers consistent with the objectives of subsection (b) has not been developed, the Secretary and the Administrator shall, after consultation with the National Institute of Standards and Technology and not later than 2 years after the determination, develop and implement the program under subsection (b).


(g) Protection of proprietary informationThe Secretary, the Administrator, or the data center efficiency organization shall not disclose any proprietary information or trade secrets provided by any individual or company for the purposes of carrying out this section or the program established under this section.


(Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 453, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1637.)


References in TextThe Energy Policy and Conservation Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(D)(ii), is Pub. L. 94–163, Dec. 22, 1975, 89 Stat. 871, which is classified principally to chapter 77 (§ 6201 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6201 of this title and Tables.


