§ 5590. Submittal to Congressional committees of plan for demonstrating applications of photovoltaic systems and facilitating use in other nations; encouragement of international participation and cooperation; coordination and consistency of plan and international activities with similar activities and programs(a) Within one year after November 4, 1978, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, the Director of the Export/Import Bank and other appropriate Federal officials, shall submit to the House Committee on Science and Technology and the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources a plan for demonstrating applications of solar photovoltaic energy systems and facilitating their widespread use in other nations, especially those with agreements for scientific cooperation with the United States.

(b) The Secretary is authorized to encourage, to the maximum extent practicable, international participation and cooperation in the development and maintenance of programs established under this plan. The Secretary, in consultation and cooperation with the Federal officials specified in subsection (a) of this section, shall insure to the maximum extent possible that the plan submitted under subsection (a) of this section and any other international activities under this section are consistent with and reflective of any similar activities or requirements under any other Federal statute, specifically including any of the several programs under other agencies and Departments involving United States international cooperation and assistance in nonnuclear energy technology, and will not duplicate activities under such programs. The plan required in subsection (a) of this section shall specifically identify all such programs and statutes and describe how the activities under this section will be consistent with such programs, will be coordinated with them, and will avoid duplication of activities under such programs.

(Pub. L. 95–590, § 11, Nov. 4, 1978, 92 Stat. 2520; Pub. L. 103–82, title IV, § 405(j), Sept. 21, 1993, 107 Stat. 922.)

Amendments1993—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 103–82 struck out “the Director of ACTION,” after “International Development,”.


Change of Name
Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.

Effective Date of 1993 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 103–82 effective Apr. 4, 1994, see section 406(b) of Pub. L. 103–82, set out as a note under section 8332 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


