§ 289g–4. Support for emergency medicine research(a) Emergency medical researchThe Secretary shall support Federal programs administered by the National Institutes of Health, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the Health Resources and Services Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and other agencies involved in improving the emergency care system to expand and accelerate research in emergency medical care systems and emergency medicine, including—(1) the basic science of emergency medicine;

(2) the model of service delivery and the components of such models that contribute to enhanced patient health outcomes;

(3) the translation of basic scientific research into improved practice; and

(4) the development of timely and efficient delivery of health services.


(b) Pediatric emergency medical researchThe Secretary shall support Federal programs administered by the National Institutes of Health, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the Health Resources and Services Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and other agencies to coordinate and expand research in pediatric emergency medical care systems and pediatric emergency medicine, including—(1) an examination of the gaps and opportunities in pediatric emergency care research and a strategy for the optimal organization and funding of such research;

(2) the role of pediatric emergency services as an integrated component of the overall health system;

(3) system-wide pediatric emergency care planning, preparedness, coordination, and funding;

(4) pediatric training in professional education; and

(5) research in pediatric emergency care, specifically on the efficacy, safety, and health outcomes of medications used for infants, children, and adolescents in emergency care settings in order to improve patient safety.


(c) Impact researchThe Secretary shall support research to determine the estimated economic impact of, and savings that result from, the implementation of coordinated emergency care systems.


(d) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2014.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 498D, as added Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3504(b), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 521.)
