§ 14221. Task force relating to introduction of nonindigenous species(1) In generalThe Attorney General is authorized to convene a law enforcement task force in Hawaii to facilitate the prosecution of violations of Federal laws, and laws of the State of Hawaii, relating to the wrongful conveyance, sale, or introduction of nonindigenous plant and animal species.


(2) Membership(A) The task force shall be composed of representatives of—(i) the Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Hawaii;

(ii) the United States Customs Service;

(iii) the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service;

(iv) the Fish and Wildlife Service;

(v) the National Park Service;

(vi) the United States Forest Service;

(vii) the Military Customs Inspection Office of the Department of Defense;

(viii) the United States Postal Service;

(ix) the office of the Attorney General of the State of Hawaii;

(x) the Hawaii Department of Agriculture;

(xi) the Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources; and

(xii) such other individuals as the Attorney General deems appropriate.


(B) The Attorney General shall, to the extent practicable, select individuals to serve on the task force who have experience with the enforcement of laws relating to the wrongful conveyance, sale, or introduction of nonindigenous plant and animal species.


(3) DutiesThe task force shall—(A) facilitate the prosecution of violations of Federal and State laws relating to the conveyance, sale, or introduction of nonindigenous plant and animal species into Hawaii; and

(B) make recommendations on ways to strengthen Federal and State laws and law enforcement strategies designed to prevent the introduction of nonindigenous plant and animal species.


(4) ReportThe task force shall report to the Attorney General, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of the Interior, and to the Committee on the Judiciary and Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary, Committee on Agriculture, and Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives on—(A) the progress of its enforcement efforts; and

(B) the adequacy of existing Federal laws and laws of the State of Hawaii that relate to the introduction of nonindigenous plant and animal species.


Thereafter, the task force shall make such reports as the task force deems appropriate.

(5) ConsultationThe task force shall consult with Hawaii agricultural interests and representatives of Hawaii conservation organizations about methods of preventing the wrongful conveyance, sale, or introduction of nonindigenous plant and animal species into Hawaii.


(Pub. L. 103–322, title XXXII, § 320108(a), Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 2111.)


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the United States Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


Abolition of House Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries
Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of House of Representatives abolished and its jurisdiction transferred by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Fourth Congress, Jan. 4, 1995. For treatment of references to Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, see section 1(b)(3) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress.


