“SEC. 401. FREELY ASSOCIATED STATES TARIFF TREATMENT.“(a) Section 242.—Section 242 of the Compact [set out above] shall be construed and applied as if it read as follows:“ ‘Section 242
“ ‘The President shall proclaim the following tariff treatment for articles imported from the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands which shall apply during the period of effectiven[e]ss of this title:
“ ‘(1) Unless otherwise excluded, articles imported from the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands, subject to the limitations imposed under sections 503(b) and 504(c) of title 5 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2463(b); 2464(c)), shall be exempt from duty.
“ ‘(2) Only canned tuna provided for in item 112.30 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States that is imported from the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands during any calendar year not to exceed 10 percent of the United States consumption of canned tuna during the immediately preceding calendar year, as reported by the National Marine Fisheries Service, shall be exempt from duty; but the quantity of tuna given duty free treatment under this paragraph for any calendar year shall be counted against the aggregate quantity of canned tuna that is dutiable under rate column numbered 1 of such item 112.30 for that calendar year.
“ ‘(3) The duty-free treatment provided under paragraph (1) shall not apply to—
“ ‘(A) watches, clocks, and timing apparatus provided for in subpart E of part 2 of schedule 7 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States;
“ ‘(B) buttons (whether finished or not finished) provided for in item 745.32 of such Schedules;
“ ‘(C) textile and apparel articles which are subject to textile agreements; and
“ ‘(D) footwear, handbags, luggage, flat goods, work gloves, and leather wearing apparel which were not eligible articles for purposes of chapter V of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2461, et seq.) on April 1, 1984.
“ ‘(4) If the cost or value of materials produced in the customs territory of the United States is included with respect to an eligible article which is a product of the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands, an amount not to exceed 15 percent of the appraised value of the article at the time it is entered that is attributable to such United States cost or value may be applied for duty assessment purposes toward determining the percentage referred to in section 503(b)(2) of title V of the Trade Act of 1974.’.


“(b) Section 243.—Section 243 of the Compact shall be construed and applied as if it read as follows:“ ‘Section 243
“ ‘Articles imported from the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands which are not exempt from duty under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of section 242 shall be subject to the rates of duty set forth in column numbered 1 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States and all products of the United States imported into the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands shall receive treatment no less favorable than that accorded like products of any foreign country with respect to customs duties or charges of a similar nature and with respect to laws and regulations relating to importation, exportation, taxation, sale, distribution, storage, or use.’.


