§ 13663. Ineligibility of dangerous sex offenders for admission to public housing(a) In generalNotwithstanding any other provision of law, an owner of federally assisted housing shall prohibit admission to such housing for any household that includes any individual who is subject to a lifetime registration requirement under a State sex offender registration program.


(b) Obtaining informationAs provided in regulations issued by the Secretary to carry out this section—(1) a public housing agency shall carry out criminal history background checks on applicants for federally assisted housing and make further inquiry with State and local agencies as necessary to determine whether an applicant for federally assisted housing is subject to a lifetime registration requirement under a State sex offender registration program; and

(2) State and local agencies responsible for the collection or maintenance of criminal history record information or information on persons required to register as sex offenders shall comply with requests of public housing agencies for information pursuant to this section.


(c) Requests by owners for PHAs to obtain informationA public housing agency may take any action under subsection (b) of this section regarding applicants for, or tenants of, federally assisted housing other than federally assisted housing described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 13664(a)(2) of this title, but only if the housing is located within the jurisdiction of the agency and the owner of such housing has requested that the agency take such action on behalf of the owner. Upon such a request by the owner, the agency shall take the action requested under subsection (b) of this section. The agency may not make any information obtained pursuant to the action under subsection (b) of this section available to the owner but shall perform determinations for the owner regarding screening, lease enforcement, and eviction based on criteria supplied by the owner.


(d) Opportunity to disputeBefore an adverse action is taken with respect to an applicant for federally assisted housing on the basis that an individual is subject to a lifetime registration requirement under a State sex offender registration program, the public housing agency obtaining the record shall provide the tenant or applicant with a copy of the registration information and an opportunity to dispute the accuracy and relevance of that information.


(e) FeeA public housing agency may be charged a reasonable fee for taking actions under subsection (b) of this section. In the case of a public housing agency taking actions on behalf of another owner of federally assisted housing pursuant to subsection (c) of this section, the agency may pass such fee on to the owner making the request and may charge an additional reasonable fee for making the request on behalf of the owner.


(f) Records managementEach public housing agency shall establish and implement a system of records management that ensures that any criminal record or information regarding a lifetime registration requirement under a State sex offender registration program that is obtained under this section by the public housing agency is—(1) maintained confidentially;

(2) not misused or improperly disseminated; and

(3) destroyed, once the purpose for which the record was requested has been accomplished.


(Pub. L. 105–276, title V, § 578, Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2641.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998, and not as part of subtitles C to F of title VI of Pub. L. 102–550 which comprise this chapter.


