§ 2134. Medical, industrial, and commercial licenses(a) Medical therapyThe Commission is authorized to issue licenses to persons applying therefor for utilization facilities for use in medical therapy. In issuing such licenses the Commission is directed to permit the widest amount of effective medical therapy possible with the amount of special nuclear material available for such purposes and to impose the minimum amount of regulation consistent with its obligations under this chapter to promote the common defense and security and to protect the health and safety of the public.


(b) Industrial and commercial purposesAs provided for in subsection (b) or (c) of section 2132 of this title, or where specifically authorized by law, the Commission is authorized to issue licenses under this subsection to persons applying therefor for utilization and production facilities for industrial and commercial purposes. In issuing licenses under this subsection, the Commission shall impose the minimum amount of such regulations and terms of license as will permit the Commission to fulfill its obligations under this chapter.


(c) Research and development activitiesThe Commission is authorized to issue licenses to persons applying therefor for utilization and production facilities useful in the conduct of research and development activities of the types specified in section 2051 of this title and which are not facilities of the type specified in subsection (b) of this section. The Commission is directed to impose only such minimum amount of regulation of the licensee as the Commission finds will permit the Commission to fulfill its obligations under this chapter to promote the common defense and security and to protect the health and safety of the public and will permit the conduct of widespread and diverse research and development.


(d) LimitationsNo license under this section may be given to any person for activities which are not under or within the jurisdiction of the United States, except for the export of production or utilization facilities under terms of an agreement for cooperation arranged pursuant to section 2153 of this title or except under the provisions of section 2139 of this title. No license may be issued to any corporation or other entity if the Commission knows or has reason to believe it is owned, controlled, or dominated by an alien, a foreign corporation, or a foreign government. In any event, no license may be issued to any person within the United States if, in the opinion of the Commission, the issuance of a license to such person would be inimical to the common defense and security or to the health and safety of the public.


(Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724, title I, § 104, as added Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1, 68 Stat. 937; amended Pub. L. 91–560, § 5, Dec. 19, 1970, 84 Stat. 1472; renumbered title I, Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, § 902(a)(8), Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 2944.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) to (c), was in the original “this Act”, meaning act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724, as added by act Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1, 68 Stat. 919, known as the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2011 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1970—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 91–560 substituted provisions authorizing the issue of licenses for utilization or production facilities for industrial or commercial purposes (i) where specifically authorized by law or (ii) where the facility was constructed or operated under an arrangement with the Commission entered into under the cooperative power reactor demonstration program, and the applicable statutory authorization does not require licensing under section 2133, or (iii) where the facility was theretofore licensed under section 2134(b), for provisions authorizing the issue of licenses for utilization and production facilities involved in the conduct of research and development activities leading to the demonstration of the practical value of such facilities for industrial and commercial purposes.


