§ 16945. Office of Sex Offender Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending, Registering, and Tracking(a) EstablishmentThere is established within the Department of Justice, under the general authority of the Attorney General, an Office of Sex Offender Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending, Registering, and Tracking (hereinafter in this section referred to as the “SMART Office”).


(b) DirectorThe SMART Office shall be headed by a Director who shall be appointed by the President. The Director shall report to the Attorney General through the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs and shall have final authority for all grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts awarded by the SMART Office. The Director shall not engage in any employment other than that of serving as the Director, nor shall the Director hold any office in, or act in any capacity for, any organization, agency, or institution with which the Office makes any contract or other arrangement.


(c) Duties and functionsThe SMART Office is authorized to—(1) administer the standards for the sex offender registration and notification program set forth in this chapter;

(2) administer grant programs relating to sex offender registration and notification authorized by this chapter and other grant programs authorized by this chapter as directed by the Attorney General;

(3) cooperate with and provide technical assistance to States, units of local government, tribal governments, and other public and private entities involved in activities related to sex offender registration or notification or to other measures for the protection of children or other members of the public from sexual abuse or exploitation; and

(4) perform such other functions as the Attorney General may delegate.


(Pub. L. 109–248, title I, § 146, July 27, 2006, 120 Stat. 607.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsec. (c)(1), (2), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 109–248, July 27, 2006, 120 Stat. 587, known as the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 16901 of this title and Tables.


