§ 239a. Determination of eligibility and benefits(a) In generalThe Secretary shall establish procedures for determining, as applicable with respect to an individual—(1) whether the individual is an eligible individual;

(2) whether an eligible individual has sustained a covered injury or injuries for which medical benefits or compensation may be available under sections 239c and 239d of this title, and the amount of such benefits or compensation; and

(3) whether the covered injury or injuries of an eligible individual caused the individual’s death for purposes of benefits under section 239e of this title.


(b) Covered individualsThe Secretary may accept a certification, by a Federal, State, or local government entity or private health care entity participating in the administration of covered countermeasures under the Declaration, that an individual is a covered individual.


(c) Criteria for reimbursement(1) Injuries specified in injury tableIn any case where an injury or other adverse effect specified in the injury table established under section 239b of this title as a known effect of a vaccine manifests in an individual within the time period specified in such table, such injury or other effect shall be presumed to have resulted from administration of such vaccine.


(2) Other determinationsIn making determinations other than those described in paragraph (1) as to the causation or severity of an injury, the Secretary shall employ a preponderance of the evidence standard and take into consideration all relevant medical and scientific evidence presented for consideration, and may obtain and consider the views of qualified medical experts.



(d) Deadline for filing requestThe Secretary shall not consider any request for a benefit under this part with respect to an individual, unless—(1) in the case of a request based on the administration of the vaccine to the individual, the individual files with the Secretary an initial request for benefits or compensation under this part not later than one year after the date of administration of the vaccine; or

(2) in the case of a request based on accidental vaccinia inoculation, the individual files with the Secretary an initial request for benefits or compensation under this part not later than two years after the date of the first symptom or manifestation of onset of the adverse effect.


(e) Structured settlements at Secretary’s optionIn any case in which there is a reasonable likelihood that compensation or payment under section 239c, 239d, or 239e(b) of this title will be required for a period in excess of one year from the date an individual is determined eligible for such compensation or payment, the Secretary shall have the discretion to make a lump-sum payment, purchase an annuity or medical insurance policy, or execute an appropriate structured settlement agreement, provided that such payment, annuity, policy, or agreement is actuarially determined to have a value equal to the present value of the projected total amount of benefits or compensation that the individual is eligible to receive under such section or sections.


(f) Review of determination(1) Secretary’s review authorityThe Secretary may review a determination under this section at any time on the Secretary’s own motion or on application, and may affirm, vacate, or modify such determination in any manner the Secretary deems appropriate. The Secretary shall develop a process by which an individual may file a request for reconsideration of any determination made by the Secretary under this section.


(2) Judicial and administrative reviewNo court of the United States, or of any State, District, territory or possession thereof, shall have subject matter jurisdiction to review, whether by mandamus or otherwise, any action by the Secretary under this section. No officer or employee of the United States shall review any action by the Secretary under this section (unless the President specifically directs otherwise).



(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title II, § 262, as added Pub. L. 108–20, § 2, Apr. 30, 2003, 117 Stat. 640.)
