§ 300i–2. Terrorist and other intentional acts(a) Vulnerability assessments(1) Each community water system serving a population of greater than 3,300 persons shall conduct an assessment of the vulnerability of its system to a terrorist attack or other intentional acts intended to substantially disrupt the ability of the system to provide a safe and reliable supply of drinking water. The vulnerability assessment shall include, but not be limited to, a review of pipes and constructed conveyances, physical barriers, water collection, pretreatment, treatment, storage and distribution facilities, electronic, computer or other automated systems which are utilized by the public water system, the use, storage, or handling of various chemicals, and the operation and maintenance of such system. The Administrator, not later than August 1, 2002, after consultation with appropriate departments and agencies of the Federal Government and with State and local governments, shall provide baseline information to community water systems required to conduct vulnerability assessments regarding which kinds of terrorist attacks or other intentional acts are the probable threats to—(A) substantially disrupt the ability of the system to provide a safe and reliable supply of drinking water; or

(B) otherwise present significant public health concerns.


(2) Each community water system referred to in paragraph (1) shall certify to the Administrator that the system has conducted an assessment complying with paragraph (1) and shall submit to the Administrator a written copy of the assessment. Such certification and submission shall be made prior to:(A) March 31, 2003, in the case of systems serving a population of 100,000 or more.

(B) December 31, 2003, in the case of systems serving a population of 50,000 or more but less than 100,000.

(C) June 30, 2004, in the case of systems serving a population greater than 3,300 but less than 50,000.


(3) Except for information contained in a certification under this subsection identifying the system submitting the certification and the date of the certification, all information provided to the Administrator under this subsection and all information derived therefrom shall be exempt from disclosure under section 552 of title 5.

(4) No community water system shall be required under State or local law to provide an assessment described in this section to any State, regional, or local governmental entity solely by reason of the requirement set forth in paragraph (2) that the system submit such assessment to the Administrator.

(5) Not later than November 30, 2002, the Administrator, in consultation with appropriate Federal law enforcement and intelligence officials, shall develop such protocols as may be necessary to protect the copies of the assessments required to be submitted under this subsection (and the information contained therein) from unauthorized disclosure. Such protocols shall ensure that—(A) each copy of such assessment, and all information contained in or derived from the assessment, is kept in a secure location;

(B) only individuals designated by the Administrator may have access to the copies of the assessments; and

(C) no copy of an assessment, or part of an assessment, or information contained in or derived from an assessment shall be available to anyone other than an individual designated by the Administrator.


At the earliest possible time prior to November 30, 2002, the Administrator shall complete the development of such protocols for the purpose of having them in place prior to receiving any vulnerability assessments from community water systems under this subsection.

(6)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), any individual referred to in paragraph (5)(B) who acquires the assessment submitted under paragraph (2), or any reproduction of such assessment, or any information derived from such assessment, and who knowingly or recklessly reveals such assessment, reproduction, or information other than—(i) to an individual designated by the Administrator under paragraph (5),

(ii) for purposes of section 300j–4 of this title or for actions under section 300i of this title, or

(iii) for use in any administrative or judicial proceeding to impose a penalty for failure to comply with this section,


shall upon conviction be imprisoned for not more than one year or fined in accordance with the provisions of chapter 227 of title 18 applicable to class A misdemeanors, or both, and shall be removed from Federal office or employment.

(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), an individual referred to in paragraph (5)(B) who is an officer or employee of the United States may discuss the contents of a vulnerability assessment submitted under this section with a State or local official.


(7) Nothing in this section authorizes any person to withhold any information from Congress or from any committee or subcommittee of Congress.


(b) Emergency response planEach community water system serving a population greater than 3,300 shall prepare or revise, where necessary, an emergency response plan that incorporates the results of vulnerability assessments that have been completed. Each such community water system shall certify to the Administrator, as soon as reasonably possible after the enactment of this section, but not later than 6 months after the completion of the vulnerability assessment under subsection (a) of this section, that the system has completed such plan. The emergency response plan shall include, but not be limited to, plans, procedures, and identification of equipment that can be implemented or utilized in the event of a terrorist or other intentional attack on the public water system. The emergency response plan shall also include actions, procedures, and identification of equipment which can obviate or significantly lessen the impact of terrorist attacks or other intentional actions on the public health and the safety and supply of drinking water provided to communities and individuals. Community water systems shall, to the extent possible, coordinate with existing Local Emergency Planning Committees established under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (42 U.S.C. 11001 et seq.) when preparing or revising an emergency response plan under this subsection.


(c) Record maintenanceEach community water system shall maintain a copy of the emergency response plan completed pursuant to subsection (b) of this section for 5 years after such plan has been certified to the Administrator under this section.


(d) Guidance to small public water systemsThe Administrator shall provide guidance to community water systems serving a population of less than 3,300 persons on how to conduct vulnerability assessments, prepare emergency response plans, and address threats from terrorist attacks or other intentional actions designed to disrupt the provision of safe drinking water or significantly affect the public health or significantly affect the safety or supply of drinking water provided to communities and individuals.


(e) Funding(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section not more than $160,000,000 for the fiscal year 2002 and such sums as may be necessary for the fiscal years 2003 through 2005.

(2) The Administrator, in coordination with State and local governments, may use funds made available under paragraph (1) to provide financial assistance to community water systems for purposes of compliance with the requirements of subsections (a) and (b) of this section and to community water systems for expenses and contracts designed to address basic security enhancements of critical importance and significant threats to public health and the supply of drinking water as determined by a vulnerability assessment conducted under subsection (a) of this section. Such basic security enhancements may include, but shall not be limited to the following:(A) the purchase and installation of equipment for detection of intruders;

(B) the purchase and installation of fencing, gating, lighting, or security cameras;

(C) the tamper-proofing of manhole covers, fire hydrants, and valve boxes;

(D) the rekeying of doors and locks;

(E) improvements to electronic, computer, or other automated systems and remote security systems;

(F) participation in training programs, and the purchase of training manuals and guidance materials, relating to security against terrorist attacks;

(G) improvements in the use, storage, or handling of various chemicals; and

(H) security screening of employees or contractor support services.


Funding under this subsection for basic security enhancements shall not include expenditures for personnel costs, or monitoring, operation, or maintenance of facilities, equipment, or systems.

(3) The Administrator may use not more than $5,000,000 from the funds made available under paragraph (1) to make grants to community water systems to assist in responding to and alleviating any vulnerability to a terrorist attack or other intentional acts intended to substantially disrupt the ability of the system to provide a safe and reliable supply of drinking water (including sources of water for such systems) which the Administrator determines to present an immediate and urgent security need.

(4) The Administrator may use not more than $5,000,000 from the funds made available under paragraph (1) to make grants to community water systems serving a population of less than 3,300 persons for activities and projects undertaken in accordance with the guidance provided to such systems under subsection (d) of this section.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XIV, § 1433, as added Pub. L. 107–188, title IV, § 401, June 12, 2002, 116 Stat. 682.)


References in TextThe Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, referred to in subsec. (b), probably means the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99–499, title III, Oct. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 1728, which is classified generally to chapter 116 (§ 11001 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 11001 of this title and Tables.


