§ 256i. Community-based collaborative care network program(a) In generalThe Secretary may award grants to eligible entities to support community-based collaborative care networks that meet the requirements of subsection (b).


(b) Community-based collaborative care networks(1) DescriptionA community-based collaborative care network (referred to in this section as a “network”) shall be a consortium of health care providers with a joint governance structure (including providers within a single entity) that provides comprehensive coordinated and integrated health care services (as defined by the Secretary) for low-income populations.


(2) Required inclusionA network shall include the following providers (unless such provider does not exist within the community, declines or refuses to participate, or places unreasonable conditions on their participation):(A) A hospital that meets the criteria in section 1396r–4(b)(1) of this title; and

(B) All Federally qualified health centers (as defined in section 1395x(aa) of this title 11 So in original. A closing parenthesis probably should appear. located in the community.


(3) PriorityIn awarding grants, the Secretary shall give priority to networks that include—(A) the capability to provide the broadest range of services to low-income individuals;

(B) the broadest range of providers that currently serve a high volume of low-income individuals; and

(C) a county or municipal department of health.



(c) Application(1) ApplicationA network described in subsection (b) shall submit an application to the Secretary.


(2) RenewalIn subsequent years, based on the performance of grantees, the Secretary may provide renewal grants to prior year grant recipients.



(d) Use of funds(1) Use by granteesGrant funds may be used for the following activities:(A) Assist low-income individuals to—(i) access and appropriately use health services;

(ii) enroll in health coverage programs; and

(iii) obtain a regular primary care provider or a medical home.


(B) Provide case management and care management.

(C) Perform health outreach using neighborhood health workers or through other means.

(D) Provide transportation.

(E) Expand capacity, including through telehealth, after-hours services or urgent care.

(F) Provide direct patient care services.


(2) Grant funds to HRSA granteesThe Secretary may limit the percent of grant funding that may be spent on direct care services provided by grantees of programs administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration or impose other requirements on such grantees deemed necessary.



(e) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2015.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 340H, as added Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10333, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 970.)

Codification
Another section 340H of act July 1, 1944, ch. 373, as added by Pub. L. 111–148, title V, § 5508(c), March 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 670, is classified to section 256h of this title.


