§ 1701. Publications for public distribution to be distributed by the Public Printer; mailing lists
Money appropriated by any Act may not be used for services in an executive department or other Government establishment at the District of Columbia, in the work of addressing, wrapping, mailing, or otherwise dispatching a publication for public distribution, except maps, weather reports, and weather cards issued by them or for the purchase of material or supplies to be used in this work. The Public Printer shall perform this work at the Government Printing Office. The head of an executive department, independent office, and establishment of the Government at the District of Columbia, shall furnish from time to time to the Public Printer mailing lists, in convenient form, and changes in them, or penalty mail slips, for use in the public distribution of publications issued by the department or establishment. The Public Printer may furnish copies of a publication only in accordance with law or the instruction of the head of the department or establishment issuing the publication.
This section does not apply to orders, instructions, directions, notices, or circulars of information printed for and issued by an executive department or other Government establishment or to the distribution of public documents by Senators or Members of the House of Representatives or to the Senate Service Department, House of Representatives Publications Distribution Service, and document rooms of the Senate or House of Representatives.
(Pub. L. 90–620, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1278.)

Historical and Revision NotesBased on 44 U.S. Code, 1964 ed., § 95 (Aug. 23, 1912, ch. 350, § 8, 37 Stat. 414; July 2, 1954, ch. 455, title I, § 101, 68 Stat. 397).
“House of Representatives Publications Distribution Service” is substituted for “House Folding Room” because of the change of name under authority of Public Law 88–652.
The term “executive department, independent office, and establishment of the Government” is substituted for “executive department and other Government establishment” for uniformity.


