§ 280h. Grants to promote childhood nutrition and physical activity(a) In generalThe Secretary, acting though the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall award competitive grants to States and political subdivisions of States for the development and implementation of State and community-based intervention programs to promote good nutrition and physical activity in children and adolescents.


(b) EligibilityTo be eligible to receive a grant under this section a State or political subdivision of a State shall prepare and submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including a plan that describes—(1) how the applicant proposes to develop a comprehensive program of school- and community-based approaches to encourage and promote good nutrition and appropriate levels of physical activity with respect to children or adolescents in local communities;

(2) the manner in which the applicant shall coordinate with appropriate State and local authorities, such as State and local school departments, State departments of health, chronic disease directors, State directors of programs under section 1786 of this title, 5-a-day coordinators, governors councils for physical activity and good nutrition, and State and local parks and recreation departments; and

(3) the manner in which the applicant will evaluate the effectiveness of the program carried out under this section.


(c) Use of fundsA State or political subdivision of a State shall use amount received under a grant under this section to—(1) develop, implement, disseminate, and evaluate school- and community-based strategies in States to reduce inactivity and improve dietary choices among children and adolescents;

(2) expand opportunities for physical activity programs in school- and community-based settings; and

(3) develop, implement, and evaluate programs that promote good eating habits and physical activity including opportunities for children with cognitive and physical disabilities.


(d) Technical assistanceThe Secretary may set-aside an amount not to exceed 10 percent of the amount appropriated for a fiscal year under subsection (h) of this section to permit the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to—(1) provide States and political subdivisions of States with technical support in the development and implementation of programs under this section; and

(2) disseminate information about effective strategies and interventions in preventing and treating obesity through the promotion of good nutrition and physical activity.


(e) Limitation on administrative costsNot to exceed 10 percent of the amount of a grant awarded to the State or political subdivision under subsection (a) of this section for a fiscal year may be used by the State or political subdivision for administrative expenses.


(f) TermA grant awarded under subsection (a) of this section shall be for a term of 3 years.


(g) DefinitionIn this section, the term “children and adolescents” means individuals who do not exceed 18 years of age.


(h) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 399W, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title XXIV, § 2401, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1158.)

Codification
Another section 399W of act July 1, 1944, was renumbered section 399V–1 and is classified to section 280g–12 of this title.


