§ 283a–1. Annual reporting to prevent fraud and abuse(a) Whistleblower complaints(1) In generalOn an annual basis, the Director of NIH shall submit to the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Secretary, the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report summarizing the activities of the National Institutes of Health relating to whistleblower complaints.


(2) ContentsFor each whistleblower complaint pending during the year for which a report is submitted under this subsection, the report shall identify the following:(A) Each agency of the National Institutes of Health involved.

(B) The status of the complaint.

(C) The resolution of the complaint to date.



(b) Experts and consultantsOn an annual basis, the Director of NIH shall submit to the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Secretary, the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report that—(1) identifies the number of experts and consultants, including any special consultants, whose services are obtained by the National Institutes of Health or its agencies;

(2) specifies whether such services were obtained under section 209(f) of this title, section 282(d) of this title, or other authority;

(3) describes the qualifications of such experts and consultants;

(4) describes the need for hiring such experts and consultants; and

(5) if such experts and consultants make financial disclosures to the National Institutes of Health or any of its agencies, specifies the income, gifts, assets, and liabilities so disclosed.


(c) First reportThe first report under subsections (a) and (b) shall be submitted not later than 1 year after January 15, 2007.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 403B, as added Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 104(a)(3), Jan. 15, 2007, 120 Stat. 3691.)

Effective DateSection applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482, set out as an Effective Date of 2007 Amendment note under section 281 of this title.


