§ 247d–7f. National Biodefense Science Board and working groups(a) In general(1) Establishment and functionThe Secretary shall establish the National Biodefense Science Board (referred to in this section as the “Board”) to provide expert advice and guidance to the Secretary on scientific, technical and other matters of special interest to the Department of Health and Human Services regarding current and future chemical, biological, nuclear, and radiological agents, whether naturally occurring, accidental, or deliberate.


(2) MembershipThe membership of the Board shall be comprised of individuals who represent the Nation’s preeminent scientific, public health, and medical experts, as follows—(A) such Federal officials as the Secretary may determine are necessary to support the functions of the Board;

(B) four individuals representing the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and device industries;

(C) four individuals representing academia; and

(D) five other members as determined appropriate by the Secretary, of whom—(i) one such member shall be a practicing healthcare professional;

(ii) one such member shall be an individual from an organization representing healthcare consumers;

(iii) one such member shall be an individual with pediatric subject matter expertise; and

(iv) one such member shall be a State, tribal, territorial, or local public health official.



Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude a member of the Board from satisfying two or more of the requirements described in subparagraph (D).

(3) Term of appointmentA member of the Board described in subparagraph (B), (C), or (D) of paragraph (2) shall serve for a term of 3 years, except that the Secretary may adjust the terms of the initial Board appointees in order to provide for a staggered term of appointment for all members.


(4) Consecutive appointments; maximum termsA member may be appointed to serve not more than 3 terms on the Board and may serve not more than 2 consecutive terms.


(5) DutiesThe Board shall—(A) advise the Secretary on current and future trends, challenges, and opportunities presented by advances in biological and life sciences, biotechnology, and genetic engineering with respect to threats posed by naturally occurring infectious diseases and chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear agents;

(B) at the request of the Secretary, review and consider any information and findings received from the working groups established under subsection (b);

(C) at the request of the Secretary, provide recommendations and findings for expanded, intensified, and coordinated biodefense research and development activities; and

(D) provide any recommendation, finding, or report provided to the Secretary under this paragraph to the appropriate committees of Congress.


(6) Meetings(A) Initial meetingNot later than one year after December 19, 2006, the Secretary shall hold the first meeting of the Board.


(B) Subsequent meetingsThe Board shall meet at the call of the Secretary, but in no case less than twice annually.



(7) VacanciesAny vacancy in the Board shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.


(8) ChairpersonThe Secretary shall appoint a chairperson from among the members of the Board.


(9) Powers(A) HearingsThe Board may hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the Board considers advisable to carry out this subsection.


(B) Postal servicesThe Board may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the Federal Government.



(10) Personnel(A) Employees of the Federal GovernmentA member of the Board that is an employee of the Federal Government may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of the member’s service on the Board.


(B) Other membersA member of the Board that is not an employee of the Federal Government may be compensated at a rate not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5 for each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in the actual performance of duties as a member of the Board.


(C) Travel expensesEach member of the Board shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5.


(D) Detail of Government employeesAny Federal Government employee may be detailed to the Board with the approval for the contributing agency without reimbursement, and such detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.




(b) Other working groupsThe Secretary may establish a working group of experts, or may use an existing working group or advisory committee, to—(1) identify innovative research with the potential to be developed as a qualified countermeasure or a qualified pandemic or epidemic product;

(2) identify accepted animal models for particular diseases and conditions associated with any biological, chemical, radiological, or nuclear agent, any toxin, or any potential pandemic infectious disease, and identify strategies to accelerate animal model and research tool development and validation; and

(3) obtain advice regarding supporting and facilitating advanced research and development related to qualified countermeasures and qualified pandemic or epidemic products that are likely to be safe and effective with respect to children, pregnant women, and other vulnerable populations, and other issues regarding activities under this section that affect such populations.


(c) DefinitionsAny term that is defined in section 247d–7e of this title and that is used in this section shall have the same meaning in this section as such term is given in section 247d–7e of this title.


(d) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 to carry out this section for fiscal year 2007 and each fiscal year thereafter.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 319M, as added Pub. L. 109–417, title IV, § 402, Dec. 19, 2006, 120 Stat. 2872; amended Pub. L. 113–5, title IV, § 404, Mar. 13, 2013, 127 Stat. 197.)

Amendments2013—Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 113–5, § 404(1)(B), inserted concluding provisions.
Subsec. (a)(2)(D)(iii), (iv). Pub. L. 113–5, § 404(1)(A), added cls. (iii) and (iv).
Subsec. (a)(5)(D). Pub. L. 113–5, § 404(2), added subpar. (D).


