“SEC. 1103. NEW TOWN DEVELOPMENT DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.“(a) In General.—Each of the 2 new town development demonstration programs selected for assistance under this title under section 1102 shall be carried out, by the governing board submitting the new town plan for the demonstration program, in accordance with such plan (and any approved amendments of such plans) and shall be subject to the requirements under this section.

“(b) Local Participation.—With respect to any activities carried out under the demonstration program, the program shall give preference in awarding contracts, purchasing materials, acquiring services, and obtaining assistance or training, to contractors, businesses, developers, professionals, and other establishments located or having offices within the new town demonstration area.

“(c) Housing.—“(1) Number of units.—The demonstration program shall construct or renovate not less than 1,500 dwelling units in the new town demonstration area, of which not less than 60 percent shall be units available for purchase by the occupant.

“(2) Affordability.—Units of varying sizes and costs shall be designed and developed under the demonstration program so that the program provides housing affordable to families of varying incomes not exceeding 115 percent of the median income for the area in which the new town demonstration area is located, including very low- and low-income families (as such terms are defined in section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)]).

“(3) Homeownership units.—Dwelling units developed under the demonstration program for purchase by the occupant shall initially be sold at prices affordable to families eligible to purchase such units. Such units shall be available for purchase only by families having incomes not exceeding the amount specified in paragraph (2). The demonstration shall develop 2-, 3-, and 4-bedroom units for purchase.

“(4) Rental units.—Dwelling units developed under the demonstration program that are to be available for rental shall include family-type units and single bedroom and efficiency units designed for elderly occupants. Such units shall be available for occupancy only by families who (upon initial occupancy) have incomes of (A) less than 60 percent of the median income for the area, or (B) less than $20,000. Occupant families shall pay not more than 30 percent of the family income for rent.


“(d) Social Services.—The demonstration program shall provide for appropriate social and supportive services to be made available to residents of housing assisted under the demonstration program and to other residents of the new town demonstration area, which may include rental and homeownership counseling, child care, job placement, educational programs, recreational and health care facilities and programs, and other appropriate services.

“(e) Job Creation and Training.—The demonstration program shall provide, to the extent practicable, that activities in connection with the demonstration program, including development of housing under subsection (c) and community development activities assisted under section 1106, shall employ and provide job training opportunities for residents of the housing assisted under the demonstration program and other residents of the new town demonstration area.

“(f) Financing.—The demonstration program shall provide for coordination with banks, credit unions, and other mortgage lenders to make financing available to purchasers of units developed under the demonstration program through mortgages eligible for insurance under section 1104, and shall give preference to such mortgage lenders who have offices located within or near the new town demonstration area.

“(g) Support Facilities.—The demonstration program shall encourage, facilitate, and provide for development of appropriate support facilities to serve residents in the housing developed under the program, including infrastructure and commercial facilities.

“(h) Non-Federal Funds.—The governing board carrying out the demonstration program shall ensure that not less than 25 percent of the total amounts used to carry out the demonstration program is provided from non-Federal sources, including State or local government funds, any salary paid to staff to carry out the demonstration program, the value of any time, services, and materials donated to carry out the program, the value of any donated building, and the value of any lease on a building.

