§ 300v–2. Administrative provisions(a) HearingsThe Commission may for the purpose of carrying out this subchapter hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Commission may deem advisable.


(b) Appointment and compensation of staff personnel; procurement and compensation of temporary and intermittent services; detail of personnel from other Federal agencies(1) The Commission may appoint and fix the pay of such staff personnel as it deems desirable. Such personnel shall be appointed subject to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service, and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.

(2) The Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services to the same extent as is authorized by section 3109(b) of title 5, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for grade GS–18 of the General Schedule.

(3) Upon request of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency is authorized to detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of such agency to the Commission to assist it in carrying out its duties under this subchapter.


(c) Contracting authorityThe Commission, in performing its duties and functions under this subchapter, may enter into contracts with appropriate public or nonprofit private entities. The authority of the Commission to enter into such contracts is effective for any fiscal year only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts.


(d) Informational requirements and prohibitions(1) The Commission may secure directly from any Federal agency information necessary to enable it to carry out this subchapter. Upon request of the Chairman of the Commission, the head of such agency shall furnish such information to the Commission.

(2) The Commission shall promptly arrange for such security clearances for its members and appropriate staff as are necessary to obtain access to classified information needed to carry out its duties under this subchapter.

(3) The Commission shall not disclose any information reported to or otherwise obtained by the Commission which is exempt from disclosure under subsection (a) of section 552 of title 5 by reason of paragraphs (4) and (6) of subsection (b) of such section.


(e) Support services from Administrator of General ServicesThe Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Commission on a reimbursable basis such administrative support services as the Commission may request.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XVIII, § 1803, as added Pub. L. 95–622, title III, § 301, Nov. 9, 1978, 92 Stat. 3440.)

References in Other Laws to GS–16, 17, or 18 Pay RatesReferences in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of Pub. L. 101–509, set out in a note under section 5376 of Title 5.


