§ 2210b. Uranium supply(a) Assessment of domestic uranium industry viability; monitoring and reporting requirements; criteria; implementation by rules and regulationsThe Secretary of Energy shall monitor and for the years 1983 to 1992 report annually to the Congress and to the President a determination of the viability of the domestic uranium mining and milling industry and shall establish by rule, after public notice and in accordance with the requirements of section 2231 of this title, within 9 months of January 4, 1983, specific criteria which shall be assessed in the annual reports on the domestic uranium industry’s viability. The Secretary of Energy is authorized to issue regulations providing for the collection of such information as the Secretary of Energy deems necessary to carry out the monitoring and reporting requirements of this section.


(b) Disclosure of informationUpon a satisfactory showing to the Secretary of Energy by any person that any information, or portion thereof obtained under this section, would, if made public, divulge proprietary information of such person, the Secretary shall not disclose such information and disclosure thereof shall be punishable under section 1905 of title 18.


(c) Criteria for monitoring and reporting requirementsThe criteria referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall also include, but not be limited to—(1) an assessment of whether executed contracts or options for source material or special nuclear material will result in greater than 37½ percent of actual or projected domestic uranium requirements for any two-consecutive-year period being supplied by source material or special nuclear material from foreign sources;

(2) projections of uranium requirements and inventories of domestic utilities for a 10 year period;

(3) present and probable future use of the domestic market by foreign imports;

(4) whether domestic economic reserves can supply all future needs for a future 10 year period;

(5) present and projected domestic uranium exploration expenditures and plans;

(6) present and projected employment and capital investment in the uranium industry;

(7) the level of domestic uranium production capacity sufficient to meet projected domestic nuclear power needs for a 10 year period; and

(8) a projection of domestic uranium production and uranium price levels which will be in effect under various assumptions with respect to imports.


(d) Excessive imports; investigation by United States International Trade CommissionThe Secretary or 11 So in original. Probably should be “of”. Energy, at any time, may determine on the basis of the monitoring and annual reports required under this section that source material or special nuclear material from foreign sources is being imported in such increased quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or threat thereof, to the United States uranium mining and milling industry. Based on that determination, the United States Trade Representative shall request that the United States International Trade Commission initiate an investigation under section 2251 22 See References in Text note below. of title 19.


(e) Excessive imports for contracts or options as threatening national security; investigation by Secretary of Commerce; recommendation for further investigation(1) If, during the period 1982 to 1992, the Secretary of Energy determines that executed contracts or options for source material or special nuclear material from foreign sources for use in utilization facilities within or under the jurisdiction of the United States represent greater than 37½ percent of actual or projected domestic uranium requirements for any two-consecutive-year period, or if the Secretary of Energy determines the level of contracts or options involving source material and special nuclear material from foreign sources may threaten to impair the national security, the Secretary of Energy shall request the Secretary of Commerce to initiate under section 1862 of title 19 an investigation to determine the effects on the national security of imports of source material and special nuclear material. The Secretary of Energy shall cooperate fully with the Secretary of Commerce in carrying out such an investigation and shall make available to the Secretary of Commerce the findings that lead to this request and such other information that will assist the Secretary of Commerce in the conduct of the investigation.

(2) The Secretary of Commerce shall, in the conduct of any investigation requested by the Secretary of Energy pursuant to this section, take into account any information made available by the Secretary of Energy, including information regarding the impact on national security of projected or executed contracts or options for source material or special nuclear material from foreign sources or whether domestic production capacity is sufficient to supply projected national security requirements.

(3) No sooner than 3 years following completion of any investigation by the Secretary of Commerce under paragraph (1), if no recommendation has been made pursuant to such study for trade adjustments to assist or protect domestic uranium production, the Secretary of Energy may initiate a request for another such investigation by the Secretary of Commerce.


(Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724, title I, § 170B, as added Pub. L. 97–415, § 23(b)(1), Jan. 4, 1983, 96 Stat. 2081; renumbered title I, Pub. L. 102–486, title IX, § 902(a)(8), Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 2944.)


References in TextSection 2251 of title 19, referred to in subsec. (d), was amended generally by Pub. L. 100–418, title I, § 1401(a), Aug. 23, 1988, 102 Stat. 1225, and as so amended does not relate to investigations. See section 2252 of Title 19, Customs Duties.

Review of Status of Domestic Uranium Mining and Milling Industry; Availability to Congressional Committees; Scope of ReviewPub. L. 97–415, § 23(a), Jan. 4, 1983, 96 Stat. 2080, provided that:
“(a)(1) Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this section [Jan. 4, 1983], the President shall prepare and submit to the Congress a comprehensive review of the status of the domestic uranium mining and milling industry. This review shall be made available to the appropriate committees of the United States Senate and the House of Representatives.

“(2) The Comprehensive review prepared for submission under paragraph (1) shall include—“(A) projections of uranium requirements and inventories of domestic utilities;

“(B) present and future projected uranium production by the domestic mining and milling industry;

“(C) the present and future probable penetration of the domestic market by foreign imports;

“(D) the size of domestic and foreign ore reserves;

“(E) present and projected domestic uranium exploration expenditures and plans;

“(F) present and projected employment and capital investment in the uranium industry;

“(G) an estimate of the level of domestic uranium production necessary to ensure the viable existence of a domestic uranium industry and protection of national security interests;

“(H) an estimate of the percentage of domestic uranium demand which must be met by domestic uranium production through the year 2000 in order to ensure the level of domestic production estimated to be necessary under subparagraph (G);

“(I) a projection of domestic uranium production and uranium price levels which will be in effect both under current policy and in the event that foreign import restrictions were enacted by Congress in order to guarantee domestic production at the level estimated to be necessary under subparagraph (G);

“(J) the anticipated effect of spent nuclear fuel reprocessing on the demand for uranium; and

“(K) other information relevant to the consideration of restrictions on the importation of source material and special nuclear material from foreign sources.”







