§ 41763. Federal credit instruments(a) In General.—Subject to this section and section 41766, the Secretary of Transportation may enter into agreements with one or more obligors to make available Federal credit instruments, the proceeds of which shall be used to finance aircraft purchases.

(b) Secured Loans.—(1) Terms and limitations.—(A) In general.—A secured loan under this section with respect to an aircraft purchase shall be on such terms and conditions and contain such covenants, representatives, warranties, and requirements (including requirements for audits) as the Secretary determines appropriate.

(B) Maximum amount.—No secured loan may be made under this section—(i) that extends to more than 50 percent of the purchase price (including the value of any manufacturer credits, post-purchase options, or other discounts) of the aircraft, including spare parts, to be purchased; or

(ii) that, when added to the remaining balance on any other Federal credit instruments made under this subchapter, provides more than $100,000,000 of outstanding credit to any single obligor.


(C) Final payment date.—The final payment on the secured loan shall not be due later than 18 years after the date of execution of the loan agreement.

(D) Subordination.—The secured loan may be subordinate to claims of other holders of obligations in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or liquidation of the obligor as determined appropriate by the Secretary.

(E) Fees.—The Secretary, subject to appropriations, may establish fees at a level sufficient to cover all or a portion of the administrative costs to the United States Government of making a secured loan under this section. The proceeds of such fees shall be deposited in an account to be used by the Secretary for the purpose of administering the program established under this subchapter and shall be available upon deposit until expended.


(2) Repayment.—(A) Schedule.—The Secretary shall establish a repayment schedule for each secured loan under this section based on the projected cash flow from aircraft revenues and other repayment sources.

(B) Commencement.—Scheduled loan repayments of principal and interest on a secured loan under this section shall commence no later than 3 years after the date of execution of the loan agreement.


(3) Prepayment.—(A) Use of excess revenue.—After satisfying scheduled debt service requirements on all financial obligations and secured loans and all deposit requirements under the terms of any trust agreement, bond resolution, or similar agreement securing financial obligations, the secured loan may be prepaid at anytime without penalty.

(B) Use of proceeds of refinancing.—The secured loan may be prepaid at any time without penalty from proceeds of refinancing from non-Federal funding sources.



(c) Loan Guarantees.—(1) In general.—A loan guarantee under this section with respect to a loan made for an aircraft purchase shall be made in such form and on such terms and conditions and contain such covenants, representatives, warranties, and requirements (including requirements for audits) as the Secretary determines appropriate.

(2) Maximum amount.—No loan guarantee shall be made under this section—(A) that extends to more than the unpaid interest and 50 percent of the unpaid principal on any loan;

(B) that, for any loan or combination of loans, extends to more than 50 percent of the purchase price (including the value of any manufacturer credits, post-purchase options, or other discounts) of the aircraft, including spare parts, to be purchased with the loan or loan combination;

(C) on any loan with respect to which terms permit repayment more than 15 years after the date of execution of the loan; or

(D) that, when added to the remaining balance on any other Federal credit instruments made under this subchapter, provides more than $100,000,000 of outstanding credit to any single obligor.


(3) Fees.—The Secretary, subject to appropriations, may establish fees at a level sufficient to cover all or a portion of the administrative costs to the United States Government of making a loan guarantee under this section. The proceeds of such fees shall be deposited in an account to be used by the Secretary for the purpose of administering the program established under this subchapter and shall be available upon deposit until expended.


(d) Lines of Credit.—(1) In general.—Subject to the requirements of this subsection, the Secretary may enter into agreements to make available lines of credit to one or more obligors in the form of direct loans to be made by the Secretary at future dates on the occurrence of certain events for any aircraft purchase selected under this section.

(2) Terms and limitations.—(A) In general.—A line of credit under this subsection with respect to an aircraft purchase shall be on such terms and conditions and contain such covenants, representatives, warranties, and requirements (including requirements for audits) as the Secretary determines appropriate.

(B) Maximum amount.—(i) Total amount.—The amount of any line of credit shall not exceed 50 percent of the purchase price (including the value of any manufacturer credits, post-purchase options, or other discounts) of the aircraft, including spare parts.

(ii) 1–year draws.—The amount drawn in any year shall not exceed 20 percent of the total amount of the line of credit.


(C) Draws.—Any draw on the line of credit shall represent a direct loan.

(D) Period of availability.—The line of credit shall be available not more than 5 years after the aircraft purchase date.

(E) Rights of third-party creditors.—(i) Against united states government.—A third-party creditor of the obligor shall not have any right against the United States Government with respect to any draw on the line of credit.

(ii) Assignment.—An obligor may assign the line of credit to one or more lenders or to a trustee on the lender’s behalf.


(F) Subordination.—A direct loan under this subsection may be subordinate to claims of other holders of obligations in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or liquidation of the obligor as determined appropriate by the Secretary.

(G) Fees.—The Secretary, subject to appropriations, may establish fees at a level sufficient to cover all of a portion of the administrative costs to the United States Government of providing a line of credit under this subsection. The proceeds of such fees shall be deposited in an account to be used by the Secretary for the purpose of administering the program established under this subchapter and shall be available upon deposit until expended.


(3) Repayment.—(A) Schedule.—The Secretary shall establish a repayment schedule for each direct loan under this subsection.

(B) Commencement.—Scheduled loan repayments of principal or interest on a direct loan under this subsection shall commence no later than 3 years after the date of the first draw on the line of credit and shall be repaid, with interest, not later than 18 years after the date of the first draw.



(e) Risk Assessment.—Before entering into an agreement under this section to make available a Federal credit instrument, the Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, shall determine an appropriate capital reserve subsidy amount for the Federal credit instrument based on such credit evaluations as the Secretary deems necessary.

(f) Conditions.—Subject to subsection (h), the Secretary may only make a Federal credit instrument available under this section if the Secretary finds that—(1) the aircraft to be purchased with the Federal credit instrument is a regional jet aircraft needed to improve the service and efficiency of operation of a commuter air carrier or new entrant air carrier;

(2) the commuter air carrier or new entrant air carrier enters into a legally binding agreement that requires the carrier to use the aircraft to provide service to underserved markets; and

(3) the prospective earning power of the commuter air carrier or new entrant air carrier, together with the character and value of the security pledged, including the collateral value of the aircraft being acquired and any other assets or pledges used to secure the Federal credit instrument, furnish—(A) reasonable assurances of the air carrier’s ability and intention to repay the Federal credit instrument within the terms established by the Secretary—(i) to continue its operations as an air carrier; and

(ii) to the extent that the Secretary determines to be necessary, to continue its operations as an air carrier between the same route or routes being operated by the air carrier at the time of the issuance of the Federal credit instrument; and


(B) reasonable protection to the United States.



(g) Limitation on Combined Amount of Federal Credit Instruments.—The Secretary shall not allow the combined amount of Federal credit instruments available for any aircraft purchase under this section to exceed—(1) 50 percent of the cost of the aircraft purchase; or

(2) $100,000,000 for any single obligor.


(h) Requirement.—Subject to subsection (i), no Federal credit instrument may be made under this section for the purchase of any regional jet aircraft that does not comply with the stage 3 noise levels of part 36 of title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 1, 1999.

(i) Other Limitations.—No Federal credit instrument shall be made by the Secretary under this section for the purchase of a regional jet aircraft unless the commuter air carrier or new entrant air carrier enters into a legally binding agreement that requires the carrier to provide scheduled passenger air transportation to the underserved market for which the aircraft is purchased for a period of not less than 36 consecutive months after the date that aircraft is placed in service.

(Added Pub. L. 106–181, title II, § 210(a), Apr. 5, 2000, 114 Stat. 97.)
