§ 3032b. Older individuals’ protection from violence projects(a) Program authorizedThe Assistant Secretary shall make grants to States, area agencies on aging, nonprofit organizations, or tribal organizations to carry out the activities described in subsection (b) of this section.


(b) ActivitiesA State, an area agency on aging, a nonprofit organization, or a tribal organization that receives a grant under subsection (a) of this section shall use such grant to—(1) support projects in local communities, involving diverse sectors of each community, to coordinate activities concerning intervention in and prevention of elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation, including family violence and sexual assault, against older individuals;

(2) develop and implement outreach programs directed toward assisting older individuals who are victims of elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation (including family violence and sexual assault, against older individuals), including programs directed toward assisting the individuals in senior housing complexes, nursing homes, board and care facilities, and senior centers;

(3) expand access to family violence and sexual assault programs (including shelters, rape crisis centers, and support groups), including mental health services, safety planning and legal advocacy for older individuals and encourage the use of senior housing, hotels, or other suitable facilities or services when appropriate as emergency short-term shelters for older individuals who are the victims of elder abuse, including family violence and sexual assault; or

(4) promote research on legal, organizational, or training impediments to providing services to older individuals through shelters and other programs, such as impediments to provision of services in coordination with delivery of health care or services delivered under this chapter.


(c) PreferenceIn awarding grants under subsection (a) of this section, the Assistant Secretary shall give preference to a State, an area agency on aging, a nonprofit organization, or a tribal organization that has the ability to carry out the activities described in this section and subchapter XI of this chapter.


(d) CoordinationThe Assistant Secretary shall encourage each State, area agency on aging, nonprofit organization, and tribal organization that receives a grant under subsection (a) of this section to coordinate activities provided under this section with activities provided by other area agencies on aging, tribal organizations, State adult protective service programs, private nonprofit organizations, and by other entities receiving funds under subchapter XI of this chapter.


(Pub. L. 89–73, title IV, § 413, as added Pub. L. 106–501, title IV, § 401, Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2259.)
