§ 14163b. Applications(a) In generalThe Attorney General shall establish a process through which a State may apply for a grant under this part.


(b) Application(1) In generalA State desiring a grant under this part shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require.


(2) ContentsEach application submitted under paragraph (1) shall contain—(A) a certification by an appropriate officer of the State that the State authorizes capital punishment under its laws and conducts, or will conduct, prosecutions in which capital punishment is sought;

(B) a description of the communities to be served by the grant, including the nature of existing capital defender services and capital prosecution programs within such communities;

(C) a long-term statewide strategy and detailed implementation plan that—(i) reflects consultation with the judiciary, the organized bar, and State and local prosecutor and defender organizations; and

(ii) establishes as a priority improvement in the quality of trial-level representation of indigents charged with capital crimes and trial-level prosecution of capital crimes;


(D) in the case of a State that employs a statutory procedure described in section 14163(e)(1)(C) of this title, a certification by an appropriate officer of the State that the State is in substantial compliance with the requirements of the applicable State statute; and

(E) assurances that Federal funds received under this part shall be—(i) used to supplement and not supplant non-Federal funds that would otherwise be available for activities funded under this part; and

(ii) allocated in accordance with section 14163e(b) of this title.




(Pub. L. 108–405, title IV, § 423, Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2288.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Innocence Protection Act 2004 and also as part of the Justice for All Act of 2004, and not as part of Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 which enacted this chapter.


