§ 247b–9a. Better diabetes care(a) Short titleThis section may be cited as the “Catalyst to Better Diabetes Care Act of 2009”.


(b) National diabetes report card(1) In generalThe Secretary, in collaboration with the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (referred to in this section as the “Director”), shall prepare on a biennial basis a national diabetes report card (referred to in this section as a “Report Card”) and, to the extent possible, for each State.11 So in original.


(2) Contents(A) In generalEach Report Card shall include aggregate health outcomes related to individuals diagnosed with diabetes and prediabetes including—(i) preventative care practices and quality of care;

(ii) risk factors; and

(iii) outcomes.


(B) Updated reportsEach Report Card that is prepared after the initial Report Card shall include trend analysis for the Nation and, to the extent possible, for each State, for the purpose of—(i) tracking progress in meeting established national goals and objectives for improving diabetes care, costs, and prevalence (including Healthy People 2010); and

(ii) informing policy and program development.



(3) AvailabilityThe Secretary, in collaboration with the Director, shall make each Report Card publicly available, including by posting the Report Card on the Internet.



(c) Improvement of vital statistics collection(1) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and in collaboration with appropriate agencies and States, shall—(A) promote the education and training of physicians on the importance of birth and death certificate data and how to properly complete these documents, including the collection of such data for diabetes and other chronic diseases;

(B) encourage State adoption of the latest standard revisions of birth and death certificates; and

(C) work with States to re-engineer their vital statistics systems in order to provide cost-effective, timely, and accurate vital systems data.


(2) Death certificate additional languageIn carrying out this subsection, the Secretary may promote improvements to the collection of diabetes mortality data, including the addition of a question for the individual certifying the cause of death regarding whether the deceased had diabetes.



(d) Study on appropriate level of diabetes medical education(1) In generalThe Secretary shall, in collaboration with the Institute of Medicine and appropriate associations and councils, conduct a study of the impact of diabetes on the practice of medicine in the United States and the appropriateness of the level of diabetes medical education that should be required prior to licensure, board certification, and board recertification.


(2) ReportNot later than 2 years after March 23, 2010, the Secretary shall submit a report on the study under paragraph (1) to the Committees on Ways and Means and Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Finance and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.



(e) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary.


(Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10407, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 976.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.


