§ 1591b. Community facilities or services by local agencies
In order to assure that community facilities or services required in connection with national defense activities shall, wherever possible, be provided by the appropriate local agencies with local funds, in any area which the President, pursuant to the authority contained in section 1591 of this title, has declared to be a critical defense housing area—(a) Certification of necessity for loanno loan shall be made pursuant to subchapter IX of this chapter for the provision of community facilities or equipment therefor required in connection with national defense activities in such area unless the chief executive officer of the appropriate political subdivision certifies, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development finds, that such facilities or equipment could not otherwise be provided when needed;


(b) Certification of necessity for grants or other paymentsno grant or other payment shall be made pursuant to subchapter IX of this chapter for the provision, or for the operation and maintenance, of community facilities or equipment therefor, or for the provision of community services, required in connection with national defense activities in such area unless the chief executive officer of the appropriate political subdivision certifies, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development finds, that such community facilities or services cannot otherwise be provided when needed, or operated and maintained, as the case may be, without the imposition of an increased excessive tax burden or an unusual or excessive increase in the debt limit of the appropriate local agency; and


(c) Maintenance and operation of facilitiesno community facilities or services shall be provided, and no community facilities shall be maintained and operated, by the United States directly except where the appropriate local agency is demonstrably unable to provide such facilities and services, or to maintain or operate such community facilities and services adequately with its own personnel, with loans, grants, or payments authorized to be made pursuant to subchapter IX of this chapter.



For the purposes of this section, the term “chief executive officer of the appropriate political subdivision” shall mean appropriate principal executive officer or governing body having primary responsibility with respect to the community facility or service involved, but shall not, in any case, mean any public housing authority, or its governing body, or any of its officers, acting in such capacity.
(Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378, title I, § 103, 65 Stat. 294; Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a), Sept. 9, 1965, 79 Stat. 669.)


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see note set out under section 1581 of this title.


