§ 390g–1. Phase I of groundwater recharge demonstration program(a) Development of detailed plan of demonstration projects; requisite features of planDuring phase I, the Bureau, in consultation with the High Plains States and other Reclamation Act States and other appropriate departments and agencies of the United States, including the United States Geological Survey, shall develop a detailed plan of demonstration projects the purpose of which is to determine whether various recharge technologies may be applied to diverse geologic and hydrologic conditions represented in the High Plains States and other Reclamation Act States. In the preparation and development of such plan, the Bureau shall make maximum use of data, planning studies and other technical resources and assistance available from State and local entities: Provided, That contributions of such technical resources and assistance may be counted as part of the inkind services or other State contribution, but shall otherwise be provided without compensation to the State or local entity. This plan shall contain the selection of not less than a total of twelve demonstration project sites in High Plains States and not less than a total of nine demonstration project sites in other Reclamation Act States. Demonstration project sites shall be confined to areas having a declining water table, an available surface water supply, and a high probability of physical, chemical, and economic feasibility for recharge of the groundwater reservoir. The plan shall provide for demonstration of the application of recharge technology and the selection of water sources, determination of necessary physical works and the operation of water replacement systems, formulation of a monitoring program, identification of any economic, legal, intergovernmental, and environmental issues and projection of planning problems associated with such systems, and recommendation of legislative and administrative actions as may be necessary to carry out phase II.


(b) Recommendation of demonstration projectsDuring phase I the Bureau is authorized and directed to recommend demonstration projects to be designed, constructed, and operated during phase II.


(c) Preliminary selection of projectsWithin six months, after the enactment of an appropriation Act to carry out phase I, the Secretary shall make a preliminary selection of projects to receive further planning and development and shall initiate such further planning and development for those selected projects.


(Pub. L. 98–434, § 3, Sept. 28, 1984, 98 Stat. 1675; Pub. L. 104–66, title I, § 1081(c), Dec. 21, 1995, 109 Stat. 721.)

Amendments1995—Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 104–66 struck out subsec. (d) which read as follows: “Within twenty-four months after the date of enactment of an appropriation Act to carry out phase I, the Secretary shall transmit a report to Congress containing the recommendations made pursuant to subsection (b) of this section and a detailed statement of his findings and conclusions.”


