§ 3032k. Community innovations for aging in place(a) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Eligible entityThe term “eligible entity”—(A) means a nonprofit health or social service organization, a community-based nonprofit organization, an area agency on aging or other local government agency, a tribal organization, or another entity that—(i) the Assistant Secretary determines to be appropriate to carry out a project under this part; and

(ii) demonstrates a record of, and experience in, providing or administering group and individual health and social services for older individuals; and


(B) does not include an entity providing housing under the congregate housing services program carried out under section 8011 of this title or the multifamily service coordinator program carried out under section 1701q(g) of title 12.


(2) Naturally Occurring Retirement CommunityThe term “Naturally Occurring Retirement Community” means a community with a concentrated population of older individuals, which may include a residential building, a housing complex, an area (including a rural area) of single family residences, or a neighborhood composed of age-integrated housing—(A) where—(i) 40 percent of the heads of households are older individuals; or

(ii) a critical mass of older individuals exists, based on local factors that, taken in total, allow an organization to achieve efficiencies in the provision of health and social services to older individuals living in the community; and


(B) that is not an institutional care or assisted living setting.



(b) Grants(1) In generalThe Assistant Secretary shall make grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to develop and carry out model aging in place projects. The projects shall promote aging in place for older individuals (including such individuals who reside in Naturally Occurring Retirement Communities), in order to sustain the independence of older individuals. A recipient of a grant under this subsection shall identify innovative strategies for providing, and linking older individuals to programs and services that provide, comprehensive and coordinated health and social services to sustain the quality of life of older individuals and support aging in place.


(2) Grant periodsThe Assistant Secretary shall make the grants for periods of 3 years.



(c) Applications(1) In generalTo be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (b) for a project, an entity shall submit an application to the Assistant Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Assistant Secretary may require.


(2) ContentsThe application shall include—(A) a detailed description of the entity’s experience in providing services to older individuals in age-integrated settings;

(B) a definition of the contiguous service area and a description of the project area in which the older individuals reside or carry out activities to sustain their well-being;

(C) the results of a needs assessment that identifies—(i) existing (as of the date of the assessment) community-based health and social services available to individuals residing in the project area;

(ii) the strengths and gaps of such existing services in the project area;

(iii) the needs of older individuals who reside in the project area; and

(iv) services not being delivered that would promote aging in place and contribute to the well-being of older individuals residing in the project area;


(D) a plan for the development and implementation of an innovative model for service coordination and delivery within the project area;

(E) a description of how the plan described in subparagraph (D) will enhance existing services described in subparagraph (C)(i) and support the goal of this section to promote aging in place;

(F) a description of proposed actions by the entity to prevent the duplication of services funded under a provision of this chapter, other than this section, and a description of how the entity will cooperate, and coordinate planning and services (including any formal agreements), with agencies and organizations that provide publicly supported services for older individuals in the project area, including the State agency and area agencies on aging with planning and service areas in the project area;

(G) an assurance that the entity will seek to establish cooperative relationships with interested local entities, including private agencies and businesses that provide health and social services, housing entities, community development organizations, philanthropic organizations, foundations, and other non-Federal entities;

(H) a description of the entity’s protocol for referral of residents who may require long-term care services, including coordination with local agencies, including area agencies on aging and Aging and Disability Resource Centers that serve as single points of entry to public services;

(I) a description of how the entity will offer opportunities for older individuals to be involved in the governance, oversight, and operation of the project;

(J) an assurance that the entity will submit to the Assistant Secretary such evaluations and reports as the Assistant Secretary may require; and

(K) a plan for long-term sustainability of the project.



(d) Use of funds(1) In generalAn eligible entity that receives a grant under subsection (b) shall use the funds made available through the grant to—(A) ensure access by older individuals in the project area to community-based health and social services consisting of—(i) case management, case assistance, and social work services;

(ii) health care management and health care assistance, including disease prevention and health promotion services;

(iii) education, socialization, and recreational activities; and

(iv) volunteer opportunities for project participants;


(B) conduct outreach to older individuals within the project area; and

(C) develop and implement innovative, comprehensive, and cost-effective approaches for the delivery and coordination of community-based health and social services, including those identified in subparagraph (A)(iv), which may include mental health services, for eligible older individuals.


(2) CoordinationAn eligible entity receiving a grant under subsection (b) for a project shall coordinate activities with organizations providing services funded under subchapter III to support such services for or facilitate the delivery of such services to eligible older individuals served by the project.


(3) PreferenceIn carrying out an aging in place project, an eligible entity shall, to the extent practicable, serve a community of low-income individuals and operate or locate the project and services in or in close proximity to a location where a large concentration of older individuals has aged in place and resided, such as a Naturally Occurring Retirement Community.


(4) Supplement not supplantFunds made available to an eligible entity under subsection (b) shall be used to supplement, not supplant, any Federal, State, or other funds otherwise available to the entity to provide health and social services to eligible older individuals.



(e) Competitive grants for technical assistance(1) GrantsThe Assistant Secretary shall (or shall make a grant, on a competitive basis, to an eligible nonprofit organization, to enable the organization to)—(A) provide technical assistance to recipients of grants under subsection (b); and

(B) carry out other duties, as determined by the Assistant Secretary.


(2) Eligible organizationTo be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection, an organization shall be a nonprofit organization (including a partnership of nonprofit organizations), that—(A) has experience and expertise in providing technical assistance to a range of entities serving older individuals and experience evaluating and reporting on programs; and

(B) has demonstrated knowledge of and expertise in community-based health and social services.


(3) ApplicationTo be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection, an organization (including a partnership of nonprofit organizations) shall submit an application to the Assistant Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Assistant Secretary may require, including an assurance that the organization will submit to the Assistant Secretary such evaluations and reports as the Assistant Secretary may require.



(f) ReportThe Assistant Secretary shall annually prepare and submit a report to Congress that shall include—(1) the findings resulting from the evaluations of the model projects conducted under this section;

(2) a description of recommended best practices regarding carrying out health and social service projects for older individuals aging in place; and

(3) recommendations for legislative or administrative action, as the Assistant Secretary determines appropriate.


(Pub. L. 89–73, title IV, § 422, as added Pub. L. 109–365, title IV, § 409, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2559.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 422 of Pub. L. 89–73 was classified to section 3035a of this title prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 106–501.
Another prior section 422 of Pub. L. 89–73 was classified to section 3035c of this title prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 97–115.


