§ 290bb–9. Methamphetamine and amphetamine treatment initiative(a) Grants(1) Authority to make grantsThe Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment may make grants to States and Indian tribes recognized by the United States that have a high rate, or have had a rapid increase, in methamphetamine or amphetamine abuse or addiction in order to permit such States and Indian tribes to expand activities in connection with the treatment of methamphetamine or amphetamine abuser or addiction in the specific geographical areas of such States or Indian tribes, as the case may be, where there is such a rate or has been such an increase.


(2) RecipientsAny grants under paragraph (1) shall be directed to the substance abuse directors of the States, and of the appropriate tribal government authorities of the Indian tribes, selected by the Director to receive such grants.


(3) Nature of activitiesAny activities under a grant under paragraph (1) shall be based on reliable scientific evidence of their efficacy in the treatment of methamphetamine or amphetamine abuse or addiction.



(b) Geographic distributionThe Director shall ensure that grants under subsection (a) of this section are distributed equitably among the various regions of the country and among rural, urban, and suburban areas that are affected by methamphetamine or amphetamine abuse or addiction.


(c) Additional activitiesThe Director shall—(1) evaluate the activities supported by grants under subsection (a) of this section;

(2) disseminate widely such significant information derived from the evaluation as the Director considers appropriate to assist States, Indian tribes, and private providers of treatment services for methamphetamine or amphetamine abuser or addiction in the treatment of methamphetamine or amphetamine abuse or addiction; and

(3) provide States, Indian tribes, and such providers with technical assistance in connection with the provision of such treatment.


(d) Authorization of appropriations(1) In generalThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2000 and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2001 and 2002.


(2) Use of certain fundsOf the funds appropriated to carry out this section in any fiscal year, the lesser of 5 percent of such funds or $1,000,000 shall be available to the Director for purposes of carrying out subsection (c) of this section.



(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 514, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXVI, § 3632, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1236.)

Codification
Another section 514 of act July 1, 1944, is classified to section 290bb–7 of this title.


