§ 44919. Security screening pilot program(a) Establishment of Program.—The Under Secretary shall establish a pilot program under which, upon approval of an application submitted by an operator of an airport, the screening of passengers and property at the airport under section 44901 will be carried out by the screening personnel of a qualified private screening company under a contract entered into with the Under Secretary.

(b) Period of Pilot Program.—The pilot program under this section shall begin on the last day of the 1-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this section and end on the last day of the 3-year period beginning on such date of enactment.

(c) Applications.—An operator of an airport may submit to the Under Secretary an application to participate in the pilot program under this section.

(d) Selection of Airports.—From among applications submitted under subsection (c), the Under Secretary may select for participation in the pilot program not more than 1 airport from each of the 5 airport security risk categories, as defined by the Under Secretary.

(e) Supervision of Screened Personnel.—The Under Secretary shall provide Federal Government supervisors to oversee all screening at each airport participating in the pilot program under this section and provide Federal Government law enforcement officers at the airport pursuant to this chapter.

(f) Qualified Private Screening Company.—A private screening company is qualified to provide screening services at an airport participating in the pilot program under this section if the company will only employ individuals to provide such services who meet all the requirements of this chapter applicable to Federal Government personnel who perform screening services at airports under this chapter and will provide compensation and other benefits to such individuals that are not less than the level of compensation and other benefits provided to such Federal Government personnel in accordance with this chapter.

(g) Standards for Private Screening Companies.—The Under Secretary may enter into a contract with a private screening company to provide screening at an airport participating in the pilot program under this section only if the Under Secretary determines and certifies to Congress that the private screening company is owned and controlled by a citizen of the United States, to the extent that the Under Secretary determines that there are private screening companies owned and controlled by such citizens.

(h) Termination of Contracts.—The Under Secretary may terminate any contract entered into with a private screening company to provide screening services at an airport under the pilot program if the Under Secretary finds that the company has failed repeatedly to comply with any standard, regulation, directive, order, law, or contract applicable to the hiring or training of personnel to provide such services or to the provision of screening at the airport.

(i) Election.—If a contract is in effect with respect to screening at an airport under the pilot program on the last day of the 3-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this section, the operator of the airport may elect to continue to have such screening carried out by the screening personnel of a qualified private screening company under a contract entered into with the Under Secretary under section 44920 or by Federal Government personnel in accordance with this chapter.

(Added Pub. L. 107–71, title I, § 108(a), Nov. 19, 2001, 115 Stat. 611.)


References in TextThe date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsecs. (b) and (i), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 107–71, which was approved Nov. 19, 2001.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Transportation Security Administration of the Department of Transportation, including the functions of the Secretary of Transportation, and of the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security, relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 203(2), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.


