§ 9203. Comprehensive program management plan(a) Program activities and periods; consultations with heads of Federal agencies and non-Federal organizationsThe Secretary shall prepare a comprehensive program management plan for the research, development, demonstration, and technology application activities to carry out the purposes of this chapter. The program activities shall be conducted in accordance with such comprehensive plan which shall include—(1) a five-year program for small wind energy systems,

(2) an eight-year program for large wind energy systems, and

(3) a three-year program for wind resource assessment 11 So in original. Probably should be followed by a comma.


which shall be consistent with the provisions of sections 9204, 9205, and 9206 of this title. In the preparation of such plan, the Secretary shall consult with the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Secretary of the Interior, and the heads of such other Federal agencies and such public and private organizations as he deems appropriate.

(b) Initial transmittal to Congressional committeesThe Secretary shall transmit the comprehensive program management plan to the Committee on Science and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate within nine months after September 8, 1980.


(c) Subsequent transmittals to Congress; descriptive statement: current plan, changes, justification for changes, progress, interagency cooperation, and recommendations for achievement of goalsConcurrently with the submission of the President’s annual budget to the Congress for each year after the year in which the comprehensive plan is initially transmitted under subsection (b) of this section, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress a detailed description of the comprehensive plan as then in effect, setting forth the modifications which may be necessary to appropriately revise such plan and any changes in circumstances which may have occurred since the plan or the last previous modification thereof was transmitted in accordance with this section. The detailed description of the comprehensive plan under this subsection shall include but need not be limited to a statement setting forth with respect to each of the programs under this chapter any changes in—(1) the anticipated research, development, demonstration, and technology application objectives to be achieved by the program;

(2) the program elements, management structure, and activities, including any regional aspects and field responsibilities thereof;

(3) the program strategies and technology applications plans, including detailed mile- stone goals to be achieved during the next fiscal year for all major activities and projects;

(4) any significant economic, environmental, and societal effects which the program may have;

(5) the total estimated cost of individual program items; and

(6) the estimated relative financial contributions of the Federal Government and non-Federal participants in the program.


Such description shall also include a detailed justification of any such changes, a detailed description of the progress made toward achieving the goals of this chapter, a statement on the status of interagency cooperation in meeting such goals, and any legislative or other recommendations which the Secretary may have to help attain such goals.

(Pub. L. 96–345, § 4, Sept. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 1141.)


Change of Name
Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.

Termination of Reporting RequirementsFor termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103–7 (in which a report required under subsec. (c) of this section is listed as the 6th item on page 87), see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66, as amended, and section 1(a)(4) [div. A, § 1402(1)] of Pub. L. 106–554, set out as notes under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance.


