§ 50a. Working capital fund for United States Geological Survey
There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a working capital fund to assist in the management of certain support activities of the United States Geological Survey (hereafter referred to as the “Survey”), Department of the Interior. The fund shall be available on and after November 5, 1990, without fiscal year limitation for expenses necessary for furnishing materials, supplies, equipment, work, facilities, and services in support of Survey programs, and, as authorized by law, to agencies of the Federal Government and others. Such expenses may include laboratory modernization and equipment replacement, computer operations, maintenance, and telecommunications services; requirements definition, systems analysis, and design services; acquisition or development of software; systems support services such as implementation assistance, training, and maintenance; acquisition and replacement of computer, publications, scientific instrumentation, telecommunications, and related automatic data processing equipment; and, such other activities as may be approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
There are authorized to be transferred to the fund, at fair and reasonable values at the time of transfer, inventories, equipment, receivables, and other assets, less liabilities, related to the functions to be financed by the fund as determined by the Secretary of the Interior: Provided, That the fund shall be credited with appropriations and other funds of the Survey, and other agencies of the Department of the Interior, other Federal agencies, and other sources, for providing materials, supplies, equipment, work, and services as authorized by law and such payments may be made in advance or upon performance: Provided further, That charges to users will be at rates approximately equal to the costs of furnishing the materials, supplies, equipment, facilities, and services, including such items as depreciation of equipment and facilities, and accrued annual leave: Provided further, That all existing balances as of November 5, 1990, from amortization fees resulting from the Survey providing telecommunications services and deposited in a special fund established on the books of the Treasury and available for payment of replacement or expansion of telecommunications services as authorized by Public Law 99–190, are hereby transferred to and merged with the working capital fund, to be used for the same purposes as originally authorized: Provided further, That funds that are not necessary to carry out the activities to be financed by the fund, as determined by the Secretary, shall be covered into miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury.
(Pub. L. 101–512, title I, Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1924; Pub. L. 102–154, title I, Nov. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 1000; Pub. L. 103–332, title I, Sept. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 2507.)


References in TextProvisions relating to the special fund authorized by Public Law 99–190, referred to in text, were formerly classified to this section. See Prior Provisions note below.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 50a, Pub. L. 99–190, § 101(d) [title I], Dec. 19, 1985, 99 Stat. 1224, 1231, related to deposit of amortization fees from Geological Survey providing telecommunications services.

Amendments1994—Pub. L. 103–332 in first par., in second sentence after “work,” inserted “facilities,”, in third sentence after “include” inserted “laboratory modernization and equipment replacement,”, after “operations” inserted “, maintenance,”, and after “replacement of computer,” inserted “publications, scientific instrumentation,” and in second par., in second proviso after “depreciation of equipment” inserted “and facilities,”.


Change of Name
“United States Geological Survey” substituted for “Geological Survey” in first paragraph pursuant to provision of title I of Pub. L. 102–154, set out as a note under section 31 of this title.


