§ 247d–7. Demonstration program to enhance bioterrorism training, coordination, and readiness(a) In generalThe Secretary shall make grants to not more than three eligible entities to carry out demonstration programs to improve the detection of pathogens likely to be used in a bioterrorist attack, the development of plans and measures to respond to bioterrorist attacks, and the training of personnel involved with the various responsibilities and capabilities needed to respond to acts of bioterrorism upon the civilian population. Such awards shall be made on a competitive basis and pursuant to scientific and technical review.


(b) Eligible entitiesEligible entities for grants under subsection (a) of this section are States, political subdivisions of States, and public or private non-profit organizations.


(c) Specific criteriaIn making grants under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall take into account the following factors:(1) Whether the eligible entity involved is proximate to, and collaborates with, a major research university with expertise in scientific training, identification of biological agents, medicine, and life sciences.

(2) Whether the entity is proximate to, and collaborates with, a laboratory that has expertise in the identification of biological agents.

(3) Whether the entity demonstrates, in the application for the program, support and participation of State and local governments and research institutions in the conduct of the program.

(4) Whether the entity is proximate to, and collaborates with, or is, an academic medical center that has the capacity to serve an uninsured or underserved population, and is equipped to educate medical personnel.

(5) Such other factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.


(d) Duration of awardThe period during which payments are made under a grant under subsection (a) of this section may not exceed 5 years. The provision of such payments shall be subject to annual approval by the Secretary of the payments and subject to the availability of appropriations for the fiscal year involved to make the payments.


(e) Supplement not supplantGrants under subsection (a) of this section shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, other Federal, State, or local public funds provided for the activities described in such subsection.


(f) Government Accountability Office reportNot later than 180 days after the conclusion of the demonstration programs carried out under subsection (a) of this section, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on Commerce and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, a report that describes the ability of grantees under such subsection to detect pathogens likely to be used in a bioterrorist attack, develop plans and measures for dealing with such threats, and train personnel involved with the various responsibilities and capabilities needed to deal with bioterrorist threats.


(g) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $6,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary through fiscal year 2006.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 319G, as added Pub. L. 106–505, title I, § 102, Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2323; amended Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b), July 7, 2004, 118 Stat. 814.)

Amendments2004—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 108–271 substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office” in heading.


Change of Name
Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.


