“Section 461“For the purpose of this Compact only and without prejudice to the views of the Government of the United States or the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia as to the nature and extent of the jurisdiction under international law of any of them, the following terms shall have the following meanings:“(a) ‘Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands’ means the area established in the Trusteeship Agreement consisting of the administrative districts of Kosrae, Yap, Ponape, the Marshall Islands and Truk as described in Title One, Trust Territory Code, Section 1, in force on January 1, 1979. This term does not include the area of Palau or the Northern Mariana Islands.

“(b) ‘Trusteeship Agreement’ means the agreement setting forth the terms of trusteeship for the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, approved by the Security Council of the United Nations April 2, 1947, and by the United States July 18, 1947, entered into force July 18, 1947, 61 Stat. 3301, T.I.A.S. 1665, 8 U.N.T.S. 189.

“(c) ‘The Marshall Islands’ and ‘the Federated States of Micronesia’ are used in a geographic sense and include the land and water areas to the outer limits of the territorial sea and the air space above such areas as now or hereafter recognized by the Government of the United States.

“(d) ‘Government of the Marshall Islands’ means the Government established and organized by the Constitution of the Marshall Islands including all the political subdivisions and entities comprising that Government.“ ‘Government of the Federated States of Micronesia’ means the Government established and organized by the Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia including all the political subdivisions and entities comprising that Government.


“(e) The following terms shall be defined consistent with the 1976 Edition of the Radio Regulations of the International Telecommunications Union (ISBN 92–61–0081–5) as follows:“(1) ‘Radio Communications’ means telecommunication by means of radio waves.

“(2) ‘Station’ means one or more transmitters or receivers or a combination of transmitters and receivers, including the accessory equipment, necessary at one location for carrying on a radio communication service; each station shall be classified by the service in which it operates permanently or temporarily.

“(3) ‘Broadcasting Service’ means a radio communication service in which the transmissions are intended for direct reception by the general public, and which may include sound transmissions, television transmissions or other types of transmissions.

“(4) ‘Broadcasting Station’ means a station in the broadcasting service.


“(f) ‘Frequency Assignment’ means the same as ‘Frequency Assignment’ means in the 1976 Edition of the Radio Regulations of the International Telecommunications Union (ISBN 92–61–0081–5).

“(g) ‘Habitual Residence’ means a place of general abode or a principal, actual dwelling place of a continuing or lasting nature; provided, however, that this term shall not apply to the residence of any person who entered the United States for the purpose of full-time studies as long as such person maintains that status, or who has been physically present in the United States, the Marshall Islands, or the Federated States of Micronesia for less than one year, or who is a dependent of a resident representative, as described in Section 152.

“(h) For the purposes of Article IV of Title One of this Compact:“(1) ‘Actual Residence’ means physical presence in the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia during eighty-five percent of the period of residency required by Section 141(a)(3); and

“(2) ‘Certificate of Actual Residence’ means a certificate issued to a naturalized citizen by the Government which has naturalized him stating that the citizen has complied with the actual residence requirement of Section 141(a)(3).


“(i) ‘Military Areas and Facilities’ means those areas and facilities in the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia reserved or acquired by the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia for use by the Government of the United States, as set forth in the separate agreements referred to in Section 321.

“(j) ‘Capital Account’ means, for each year of the Compact, those portions of the total grant assistance provided in Article I of Title Two, adjusted by Section 217, which are to be obligated for:“(1) the construction or major repair of capital infrastructure; or

“(2) public and private sector projects identified in the official overall economic development plan.


“(k) ‘Current Account’ means, for each year of the Compact, those portions of the total grant assistance provided in Article I of Title Two, adjusted by Section 217, which are to be obligated for recurring operational activities including infrastructure maintenance as identified in the annual budget justifications submitted yearly to the Government of the United States.

“(l) ‘Official Overall Economic Development Plan’ means the documented program of annual development which identifies the specific policy and project activities necessary to achieve a specified set of economic goals and objectives during the period of free association, consistent with the economic assistance authority in Title Two. Such a document should include an analysis of population trends, manpower requirements, social needs, gross national product estimates, resource utilization, infrastructure needs and expenditures, and the specific private sector projects required to develop the local economy of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia. Project identification should include initial cost estimates, with project purposes related to specific development goals and objectives.

“(m) ‘Tariff Schedules of the United States’ means the Tariff Schedules of the United States as amended from time to time and as promulgated pursuant to United States law and includes the Tariff Schedules of the United States Annotated (TSUSA), as amended.

“(n) ‘Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations’ means the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, done April 18, 1961, 23 U.S.T. 3227, T.I.A.S. 7502, 500 U.N.T.S. 95.

