§ 300z–3. Uses of grants for demonstration projects for services(a) Covered projectsExcept as provided in subsection (b) of this section, funds provided for demonstration projects for services under this subchapter may be used by grantees only to—(1) provide to eligible persons—(A) care services;

(B) prevention services; or

(C) care and prevention services (in the case of a grantee who is providing a combination of care and prevention services);


(2) coordinate, integrate, and provide linkages among providers of care, prevention, and other services for eligible persons in furtherance of the purposes of this subchapter;

(3) provide supplemental services where such services are not adequate or not available to eligible persons in the community and which are essential to the care of pregnant adolescents and to the prevention of adolescent premarital sexual relations and adolescent pregnancy;

(4) plan for the administration and coordination of pregnancy prevention services and programs of care for pregnant adolescents and adolescent parents which will further the objectives of this subchapter; and

(5) fulfill assurances required for grant approval by section 300z–5 of this title.


(b) Family planning services; availability in community(1) No funds provided for a demonstration project for services under this subchapter may be used for the provision of family planning services (other than counseling and referral services) to adolescents unless appropriate family planning services are not otherwise available in the community.

(2) Any grantee who receives funds for a demonstration project for services under this subchapter and who, after determining under paragraph (1) that appropriate family planning services are not otherwise available in the community, provides family planning services (other than counseling and referral services) to adolescents may only use funds provided under this subchapter for such family planning services if all funds received by such grantee from all other sources to support such family planning services are insufficient to support such family planning services.


(c) Fees for services: criteriaGrantees who receive funds for a demonstration project for services under this subchapter shall charge fees for services pursuant to a fee schedule approved by the Secretary as a part of the application described in section 300z–5 of this title which bases fees charged by the grantee on the income of the eligible person or the parents or legal guardians of the eligible person and takes into account the difficulty adolescents face in obtaining resources to pay for services. A grantee who receives funds for a demonstration project for services under this subchapter may not, in any case, discriminate with regard to the provision of services to any individual because of that individual’s inability to provide payment for such services, except that in determining the ability of an unemancipated minor to provide payment for services, the income of the family of an unemancipated minor shall be considered in determining the ability of such minor to make such payments unless the parents or guardians of the unemancipated minor refuse to make such payments.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XX, § 2004, as added Pub. L. 97–35, title IX, § 955(a), Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 583.)
