§ 3032h. Multidisciplinary centers and multidisciplinary systems(a) Multidisciplinary centers(1) Program authorizedThe Assistant Secretary may make grants to public and private nonprofit agencies, organizations, and institutions for the purpose of establishing or supporting multidisciplinary centers of gerontology, and gerontology centers of special emphasis (including emphasis on nutrition, employment, health (including mental health), disabilities (including severe disabilities), income maintenance, counseling services, supportive services, minority populations, diverse populations of older individuals residing in urban communities, and older individuals residing in rural areas).


(2) Use of funds(A) In generalThe centers described in paragraph (1) shall conduct research and policy analysis and function as a technical resource for the Assistant Secretary, policymakers, service providers, and Congress.


(B) Multidisciplinary centersThe multidisciplinary centers of gerontology described in paragraph (1) shall—(i) recruit and train personnel;

(ii) conduct basic and applied research toward the development of information related to aging;

(iii) stimulate the incorporation of information on aging into the teaching of biological, behavioral, and social sciences at colleges and universities;

(iv) help to develop training programs in the field of aging at schools of public health, education, social work, and psychology, and other appropriate schools within colleges and universities;

(v) serve as a repository of information and knowledge on aging, including information about best practices in long-term care service delivery, housing, and transportation;

(vi) provide information and other technical assistance to public and voluntary organizations, including State agencies and area agencies on aging, which serve the needs of older individuals in planning and developing services provided under other provisions of this chapter;

(vii) if appropriate, provide information relating to assistive technology; and

(viii) provide training and technical assistance to support the provision of community-based mental health services for older individuals.



(3) Data(A) In generalEach center that receives a grant under paragraph (1) shall provide data to the Assistant Secretary on the projects and activities carried out with funds received under such paragraph.


(B) Information includedSuch data described in subparagraph (A) shall include—(i) information on the number of personnel trained;

(ii) information on the number of older individuals served;

(iii) information on the number of schools assisted; and

(iv) other information that will facilitate achieving the objectives of this subsection.




(b) Multidisciplinary health services in communities(1) Program authorizedThe Assistant Secretary shall make grants to States, on a competitive basis, for the development and operation of—(A) systems for the delivery of mental health screening and treatment services for older individuals who lack access to such services; and

(B) programs to—(i) increase public awareness regarding the benefits of prevention and treatment of mental disorders in older individuals;

(ii) reduce the stigma associated with mental disorders in older individuals and other barriers to the diagnosis and treatment of the disorders; and

(iii) reduce age-related prejudice and discrimination regarding mental disorders in older individuals.



(2) ApplicationTo be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection for a State, a State agency shall submit an application to the Assistant Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Assistant Secretary may require.


(3) State allocation and prioritiesA State agency that receives funds through a grant made under this subsection shall allocate the funds to area agencies on aging to carry out this subsection in planning and service areas in the State. In allocating the funds, the State agency shall give priority to planning and service areas in the State—(A) that are medically underserved; and

(B) in which there are large numbers of older individuals.


(4) Area coordination of services with other providersIn carrying out this subsection, to more efficiently and effectively deliver services to older individuals, each area agency on aging shall—(A) coordinate services described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) with such services or similar or related services of other community agencies, and voluntary organizations; and

(B) to the greatest extent practicable, integrate outreach and educational activities with such activities of existing (as of the date of the integration) social service and health care (including mental health) providers serving older individuals in the planning and service area involved.


(5) Relationship to other funding sourcesFunds made available under this subsection shall supplement, and not supplant, any Federal, State, and local funds expended by a State or unit of general purpose local government (including an area agency on aging) to provide the services described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1).


(6) DefinitionIn this subsection, the term “mental health screening and treatment services” means patient screening, diagnostic services, care planning and oversight, therapeutic interventions, and referrals, that are—(A) provided pursuant to evidence-based intervention and treatment protocols (to the extent such protocols are available) for mental disorders prevalent in older individuals; and

(B) coordinated and integrated with the services of social service and health care (including mental health) providers in an area in order to—(i) improve patient outcomes; and

(ii) ensure, to the maximum extent feasible, the continuing independence of older individuals who are residing in the area.




(Pub. L. 89–73, title IV, § 419, as added Pub. L. 106–501, title IV, § 401, Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2264; amended Pub. L. 109–365, title IV, § 408, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2557.)

Amendments2006—Pub. L. 109–365, § 408(1)–(6), substituted “Multidisciplinary centers and multidisciplinary systems” for “Multidisciplinary centers” in section catchline, redesignated subsecs. (a) to (c) as pars. (1) to (3), respectively, of subsec. (a), in subsec. (a) inserted heading, redesignated former pars. and subpars. as subpars. and cls., respectively, made conforming amendments to internal references, and realigned margins.
Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 109–365, § 408(7)(A), inserted “diverse populations of older individuals residing in urban communities,” after “minority populations,”.
Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 109–365, § 408(7)(B), (C), in cl. (v) inserted “, including information about best practices in long-term care service delivery, housing, and transportation” before semicolon at end, in cl. (vi) substituted “information and other technical assistance” for “consultation and information”, and added cl. (viii).
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 109–365, § 408(8), added subsec. (b). Former subsec. (b) redesignated (a)(2).


