“SEC. 1104. FEDERAL MORTGAGE INSURANCE.“(a) In General.—Pursuant to title II and section 251 of the National Housing Act [12 U.S.C. 1707 et seq., 1715z–16], the Secretary shall (to the extent authority is available pursuant to subsection (d)) insure mortgages under this section involving properties upon which are located dwelling units described in section 1103(c)(3) of this Act that are developed under the new town demonstration programs carried out pursuant to this title.

“(b) Mortgage Terms.—Mortgages insured under this section shall—“(1) provide for periodic adjustments in the effective rate of interest charged, which—“(A) for the first 5 years of the mortgage, shall be an annual rate of not more than 7 percent; and

“(B) after the expiration of such 5-year period, may increase on an annual basis, but—“(i) shall be limited, with respect to any single interest rate increase, to not more than a 10-percent increase in the annual percentage rate; and

“(ii) may not be increased at any time to a rate greater than the rate necessary at such time to fully amortize the outstanding loan balance over the term of the mortgage; and



“(2) have a maturity of 35 years from the date of the beginning of the amortization of the mortgage.


“(c) Board Approval.—The Secretary may provide insurance under this section for a mortgage only if the governing board for the demonstration program for the new town demonstration area in which the property subject to the mortgage is located has indicated to the Secretary approval of the mortgage in connection with the demonstration program.

“(d) Insurance Authority.—To the extent provided in appropriation Acts, the Secretary shall use any authority provided pursuant to section 531(b) of the National Housing Act [12 U.S.C. 1735f–9(b)] to enter into commitments to insure loans and mortgages under this section in fiscal years 1993 and 1994 with an aggregate principal amount not exceeding such sums as may be necessary to carry out the demonstration under this title. Mortgages insured under this section shall not be considered for purposes of the aggregate limitation on the number of mortgages insured under section 251 of the National Housing Act [12 U.S.C. 1715z–16] specified in subsection (c) of such section.

