“Section 354“(a) The Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are jointly committed to continue their security and defense relations, as set forth in this Title. Accordingly, it is the intention of the two countries that the provisions of this Title shall remain binding as long as this Compact, as amended, remains in effect, and thereafter as mutually agreed, unless earlier terminated by mutual agreement pursuant to section 441, or amended pursuant to Article III of Title Four. If at any time the Government of the United States, or the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, acting unilaterally, terminates this Title, such unilateral termination shall be considered to be termination of the entire Compact, as amended, in which case the provisions of sections 442 and 452 (in the case of termination by the Government of the United States) or sections 443 and 453 (in the case of termination by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands), with the exception of paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of section 452 or paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of section 453, as the case may be, shall apply.

“(b) The Government of the United States recognizes, in view of the special relationship between the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and in view of the existence of the separate agreement regarding mutual security concluded with the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands pursuant to sections 321 and 323, that, even if this Title should terminate, any attack on the Republic of the Marshall Islands during the period in which such separate agreement is in effect, would constitute a threat to the peace and security of the entire region and a danger to the United States. In the event of such an attack, the Government of the United States would take action to meet the danger to the United States and to the Republic of the Marshall Islands in accordance with its constitutional processes.

“(c) As reflected in Article 21(1)(b) of the Trust Fund Agreement, the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands further recognize, in view of the special relationship between their countries, that even if this Title should terminate, the Government of Republic of the Marshall Islands shall refrain from actions which the Government of the United States determines, after appropriate consultation with that Government, to be incompatible with its authority and responsibility for security and defense matters in or relating to the Republic of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia. [As amended Pub. L. 110–229, title VIII, § 806(b)(2)(I), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 874.]

