§ 290bb–25e. Prevention of methamphetamine and inhalant abuse and addiction(a) GrantsThe Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention (referred to in this section as the “Director”) may make grants to and enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with public and nonprofit private entities to enable such entities—(1) to carry out school-based programs concerning the dangers of methamphetamine or inhalant abuse and addiction, using methods that are effective and evidence-based, including initiatives that give students the responsibility to create their own anti-drug abuse education programs for their schools; and

(2) to carry out community-based methamphetamine or inhalant abuse and addiction prevention programs that are effective and evidence-based.


(b) Use of fundsAmounts made available under a grant, contract or cooperative agreement under subsection (a) of this section shall be used for planning, establishing, or administering methamphetamine or inhalant prevention programs in accordance with subsection (c) of this section.


(c) Prevention programs and activities(1) In generalAmounts provided under this section may be used—(A) to carry out school-based programs that are focused on those districts with high or increasing rates of methamphetamine or inhalant abuse and addiction and targeted at populations which are most at risk to start methamphetamine or inhalant abuse;

(B) to carry out community-based prevention programs that are focused on those populations within the community that are most at-risk for methamphetamine or inhalant abuse and addiction;

(C) to assist local government entities to conduct appropriate methamphetamine or inhalant prevention activities;

(D) to train and educate State and local law enforcement officials, prevention and education officials, members of community anti-drug coalitions and parents on the signs of methamphetamine or inhalant abuse and addiction and the options for treatment and prevention;

(E) for planning, administration, and educational activities related to the prevention of methamphetamine or inhalant abuse and addiction;

(F) for the monitoring and evaluation of methamphetamine or inhalant prevention activities, and reporting and disseminating resulting information to the public; and

(G) for targeted pilot programs with evaluation components to encourage innovation and experimentation with new methodologies.


(2) PriorityThe Director shall give priority in making grants under this section to rural and urban areas that are experiencing a high rate or rapid increases in methamphetamine or inhalant abuse and addiction.



(d) Analyses and evaluation(1) In generalUp to $500,000 of the amount available in each fiscal year to carry out this section shall be made available to the Director, acting in consultation with other Federal agencies, to support and conduct periodic analyses and evaluations of effective prevention programs for methamphetamine or inhalant abuse and addiction and the development of appropriate strategies for disseminating information about and implementing these programs.


(2) Annual reportsThe Director shall submit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Commerce and Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, an annual report with the results of the analyses and evaluation under paragraph (1).



(e) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out subsection (a) of this section, $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2002 and 2003.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 519E, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXI, § 3104(c), Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1173.)


Change of Name
Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.


