§ 14041. Enhanced training and services to end abuse in later life(a) DefinitionsIn this section—(1) the term “exploitation” has the meaning given the term in section 1397j of this title;

(2) the term “later life”, relating to an individual, means the individual is 50 years of age or older; and

(3) the term “neglect” means the failure of a caregiver or fiduciary to provide the goods or services that are necessary to maintain the health or safety of an individual in later life.


(b) Grant program(1) Grants authorizedThe Attorney General may make grants to eligible entities to carry out the activities described in paragraph (2).


(2) Mandatory and permissible activities(A) Mandatory activitiesAn eligible entity receiving a grant under this section shall use the funds received under the grant to—(i) provide training programs to assist law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, agencies of States or units of local government, population specific organizations, victim service providers, victim advocates, and relevant officers in Federal, tribal, State, territorial, and local courts in recognizing and addressing instances of elder abuse;

(ii) provide or enhance services for victims of abuse in later life, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, exploitation, and neglect;

(iii) establish or support multidisciplinary collaborative community responses to victims of abuse in later life, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, exploitation, and neglect; and

(iv) conduct cross-training for law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, agencies of States or units of local government, attorneys, health care providers, population specific organizations, faith-based advocates, victim service providers, and courts to better serve victims of abuse in later life, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, exploitation, and neglect.


(B) Permissible activitiesAn eligible entity receiving a grant under this section may use the funds received under the grant to—(i) provide training programs to assist attorneys, health care providers, faith-based leaders, or other community-based organizations in recognizing and addressing instances of abuse in later life, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, exploitation, and neglect; or

(ii) conduct outreach activities and awareness campaigns to ensure that victims of abuse in later life, including domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, exploitation, and neglect receive appropriate assistance.


(C) WaiverThe Attorney General may waive 1 or more of the activities described in subparagraph (A) upon making a determination that the activity would duplicate services available in the community.


(D) LimitationAn eligible entity receiving a grant under this section may use not more than 10 percent of the total funds received under the grant for an activity described in subparagraph (B)(ii).



(3) Eligible entitiesAn entity shall be eligible to receive a grant under this section if—(A) the entity is—(i) a State;

(ii) a unit of local government;

(iii) a tribal government or tribal organization;

(iv) a population specific organization with demonstrated experience in assisting individuals over 50 years of age;

(v) a victim service provider with demonstrated experience in addressing domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; or

(vi) a State, tribal, or territorial domestic violence or sexual assault coalition; and


(B) the entity demonstrates that it is part of a multidisciplinary partnership that includes, at a minimum—(i) a law enforcement agency;

(ii) a prosecutor’s office;

(iii) a victim service provider; and

(iv) a nonprofit program or government agency with demonstrated experience in assisting individuals in later life;



(4) Underserved populationsIn making grants under this section, the Attorney General shall give priority to proposals providing services to culturally specific and underserved populations.


(5) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $9,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018.



(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40801, as added Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title II, § 1209(a), Oct. 28, 2000, 114 Stat. 1508; amended Pub. L. 113–4, title II, § 204(a), Mar. 7, 2013, 127 Stat. 82.)

Amendments2013—Pub. L. 113–4 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section defined terms for this part.

Effective Date of 2013 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 113–4 not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4, set out as a note under section 2261 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.


