§ 1971. Transfer of surplus personal property owned by United States(a) Transfer to Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, Marshall Islands, and Federated States of MicronesiaNotwithstanding any other provision of law, subject to valid existing rights, and subject to subsection (b) of this section, all right, title, and interest of the Government of the United States in personal property situated in the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and of the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands in personal property wherever located shall be transferred, without reimbursement, by a date not later than ninety days following termination of the trusteeship agreement governing the administration of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, to the government of the Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, the Marshall Islands, or the Federated States of Micronesia according to a list of distribution established by the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands in consultation with the recipient government.


(b) Declaration that property is surplusPersonal property referred to in subsection (a) of this section shall be transferred upon declaration by the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands that such property is surplus to the needs of the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, which declaration shall be approved, if applicable, by the head of the agency of the Government of the United States having administrative responsibility for the property.


(c) Property held in trustIf no government exists in Palau on December 24, 1980, that is capable of receiving title to such property in its own name, the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands shall hold such property in trust for the prospective government of Palau until such government is established.


(Pub. L. 96–597, title IV, § 402, Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3478; Pub. L. 97–357, title II, § 201, Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1706.)

Codification
Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.

Amendments1982—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 97–357, substituted “by a date not later than ninety days following termination of the trusteeship agreement governing the administration of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,” for “by October 1, 1982,”.


Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.


