§ 285t–1. Centers of excellence for research education and training(a) In generalThe Director of the Institute shall make awards of grants or contracts to designated biomedical and behavioral research institutions under paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of this section, or to consortia under paragraph (2) of such subsection, for the purpose of assisting the institutions in supporting programs of excellence in biomedical and behavioral research training for individuals who are members of minority health disparity populations or other health disparity populations.


(b) Required use of fundsAn award may be made under subsection (a) of this section only if the applicant involved agrees that the grant will be expended—(1) to train members of minority health disparity populations or other health disparity populations as professionals in the area of biomedical or behavioral research or both; or

(2) to expand, remodel, renovate, or alter existing research facilities or construct new research facilities for the purpose of conducting minority health disparities research and other health disparities research.


(c) Centers of excellence(1) In generalFor purposes of this section, a designated biomedical and behavioral research institution is a biomedical and behavioral research institution that—(A) has a significant number of members of minority health disparity populations or other health disparity populations enrolled as students in the institution (including individuals accepted for enrollment in the institution);

(B) has been effective in assisting such students of the institution to complete the program of education or training and receive the degree involved;

(C) has made significant efforts to recruit minority students to enroll in and graduate from the institution, which may include providing means-tested scholarships and other financial assistance as appropriate; and

(D) has made significant recruitment efforts to increase the number of minority or other members of health disparity populations serving in faculty or administrative positions at the institution.


(2) ConsortiumAny designated biomedical and behavioral research institution involved may, with other biomedical and behavioral institutions (designated or otherwise), including tribal health programs, form a consortium to receive an award under subsection (a) of this section.


(3) Application of criteria to other programsIn the case of any criteria established by the Director of the Institute for purposes of determining whether institutions meet the conditions described in paragraph (1), this section may not, with respect to minority health disparity populations or other health disparity populations, be construed to authorize, require, or prohibit the use of such criteria in any program other than the program established in this section.



(d) Duration of grantThe period during which payments are made under a grant under subsection (a) of this section may not exceed 5 years. Such payments shall be subject to annual approval by the Director of the Institute and to the availability of appropriations for the fiscal year involved to make the payments.


(e) Maintenance of effort(1) In generalWith respect to activities for which an award under subsection (a) of this section is authorized to be expended, the Director of the Institute may not make such an award to a designated research institution or consortium for any fiscal year unless the institution, or institutions in the consortium, as the case may be, agree to maintain expenditures of non-Federal amounts for such activities at a level that is not less than the level of such expenditures maintained by the institutions involved for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which such institutions receive such an award.


(2) Use of Federal fundsWith respect to any Federal amounts received by a designated research institution or consortium and available for carrying out activities for which an award under subsection (a) of this section is authorized to be expended, the Director of the Institute may make such an award only if the institutions involved agree that the institutions will, before expending the award, expend the Federal amounts obtained from sources other than the award.



(f) Certain expendituresThe Director of the Institute may authorize a designated biomedical and behavioral research institution to expend a portion of an award under subsection (a) of this section for research endowments.


(g) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section:(1) The term “designated biomedical and behavioral research institution” has the meaning indicated for such term in subsection (c)(1) of this section. Such term includes any health professions school receiving an award of a grant or contract under section 293 of this title.

(2) The term “program of excellence” means any program carried out by a designated biomedical and behavioral research institution with an award under subsection (a) of this section, if the program is for purposes for which the institution involved is authorized in subsection (b) of this section to expend the grant.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 464z–4, formerly § 485F, as added Pub. L. 106–525, title I, § 102, Nov. 22, 2000, 114 Stat. 2501; amended Pub. L. 109–482, title I, § 103(b)(45), Jan. 15, 2007, 120 Stat. 3688; renumbered § 464z–4 and amended Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10334(c)(1)(D)(i), (iii), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 973.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 287c–32 of this title prior to renumbering by Pub. L. 111–148.

Amendments2010—Subsecs. (a), (c)(3) to (f). Pub. L. 111–148, § 10334(c)(1)(D)(iii), substituted “Institute” for “Center” wherever appearing.
2007—Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 109–482 struck out heading and text of subsec. (h). Text read as follows: “For the purpose of making grants under subsection (a) of this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.”

Effective Date of 2007 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 109–482 applicable only with respect to amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2007 or subsequent fiscal years, see section 109 of Pub. L. 109–482, set out as a note under section 281 of this title.


