§ 1351. Oil and gas development and production(a) Development and production plans; submission to Secretary; statement of facilities and operation; submission to Governors of affected States and local governments(1) Prior to development and production pursuant to an oil and gas lease issued after September 18, 1978, in any area of the outer Continental Shelf, other than the Gulf of Mexico, or issued or maintained prior to September 18, 1978, in any area of the outer Continental Shelf, other than the Gulf of Mexico, with respect to which no oil or gas has been discovered in paying quantities prior to September 18, 1978, the lessee shall submit a development and production plan (hereinafter in this section referred to as a “plan”) to the Secretary, for approval pursuant to this section.

(2) A plan shall be accompanied by a statement describing all facilities and operations, other than those on the outer Continental Shelf, proposed by the lessee and known by him (whether or not owned or operated by such lessee) which will be constructed or utilized in the development and production of oil or gas from the lease area, including the location and site of such facilities and operations, the land, labor, material, and energy requirements associated with such facilities and operations, and all environmental and safety safeguards to be implemented.

(3) Except for any privileged or proprietary information (as such term is defined in regulations issued by the Secretary), the Secretary, within ten days after receipt of a plan and statement, shall (A) submit such plan and statement to the Governor of any affected State, and, upon request to the executive of any affected local government, and (B) make such plan and statement available to any appropriate interstate regional entity and the public.


(b) Development and production activities in accordance with plan as lease requirementAfter September 18, 1978, no oil and gas lease may be issued pursuant to this subchapter in any region of the outer Continental Shelf, other than the Gulf of Mexico, unless such lease requires that development and production activities be carried out in accordance with a plan which complies with the requirements of this section.


(c) Scope and contents of planA plan may apply to more than one oil and gas lease, and shall set forth, in the degree of detail established by regulations issued by the Secretary—(1) the specific work to be performed;

(2) a description of all facilities and operations located on the outer Continental Shelf which are proposed by the lessee or known by him (whether or not owned or operated by such lessee) to be directly related to the proposed development, including the location and size of such facilities and operations, and the land, labor, material, and energy requirements associated with such facilities and operations;

(3) the environmental safeguards to be implemented on the outer Continental Shelf and how such safeguards are to be implemented;

(4) all safety standards to be met and how such standards are to be met;

(5) an expected rate of development and production and a time schedule for performance; and

(6) such other relevant information as the Secretary may by regulation require.


(d) State concurrence in land or water zone use in coastal zone of StateThe Secretary shall not grant any license or permit for any activity described in detail in a plan and affecting any land use or water use in the coastal zone of a State with a coastal zone management program approved pursuant to section 306 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455), unless the State concurs or is conclusively presumed to concur with the consistency certification accompanying such plan pursuant to section 307(c)(3)(B)(i) or (ii) of such Act [16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(i) or (ii)], or the Secretary of Commerce makes the finding authorized by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of such Act [16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(iii)].


(e) Declaration of approval of development and production plan as major Federal action; submission of preliminary or final lease plans prior to commencement of National Environmental Policy provisions procedures(1) At least once the Secretary shall declare the approval of a development and production plan in any area or region (as defined by the Secretary) of the outer Continental Shelf, other than the Gulf of Mexico, to be a major Federal action.

(2) The Secretary may require lessees of tracts for which development and production plans have not been approved, to submit preliminary or final plans for their leases, prior to or immediately after a determination by the Secretary that the procedures under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.] shall commence.


(f) Plans considered major Federal actions; submission of draft environmental impact statement to Governors of affected States and local governmentsIf approval of a development and production plan is found to be a major Federal action, the Secretary shall transmit the draft environmental impact statement to the Governor of any affected State, and upon request, to the executive of any local government, and shall make such draft available to any appropriate interstate regional entity and the public.


(g) Plans considered nonmajor Federal actions; comments and recommendations from StatesIf approval of a development and production plan is not found to be a major Federal action, the Governor of any affected State and the executive of any affected local government shall have sixty days from the date of receipt of the plan from the Secretary to submit comments and recommendations. Prior to submitting recommendations to the Secretary, the executive of any affected local government must forward his recommendations to the Governor of his State. Such comments and recommendations shall be made available to the public upon request. In addition, any interested person may submit comments and recommendations.


(h) Approval, disapproval or modification of plan; reapplication; periodic review(1) After reviewing the record of any public hearing held with respect to the approval of a plan pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.] or the comments and recommendations submitted under subsection (g) of this section, the Secretary shall, within sixty days after the release of the final environmental impact statement prepared pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 in accordance with subsection (e) of this section, or sixty days after the period provided for comment under subsection (g) of this section, approve, disapprove, or require modifications of the plan. The Secretary shall require modification of a plan if he determines that the lessee has failed to make adequate provision in such plan for safe operations on the lease area or for protection of the human, marine, or coastal environment, including compliance with the regulations prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (8) of section 1334(a) of this title. Any modification required by the Secretary which involves activities for which a Federal license or permit is required and which affects any land use or water use in the coastal zone of a State with a coastal zone management program approved pursuant to section 306 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455) must receive concurrence by such State with respect to the consistency certification accompanying such plan pursuant to section 307(c)(3)(B)(i) or (ii) of such Act [16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(i) or (ii)] unless the Secretary of Commerce makes the finding authorized by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of such Act [16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(iii)]. The Secretary shall disapprove a plan—(A) if the lessee fails to demonstrate that he can comply with the requirements of this subchapter or other applicable Federal law, including the regulations prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (8) of section 1334(a) of this title;

(B) if any of the activities described in detail in the plan for which a Federal license or permit is required and which affects any land use or water use in the coastal zone of a State with a coastal zone management program approved pursuant to section 306 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455) do not receive concurrence by such State with respect to the consistency certification accompanying such plan pursuant to section 307(c)(3)(B)(i) or (ii) of such Act [16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(i) or (ii)] and the Secretary of Commerce does not make the finding authorized by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of such Act [16 U.S.C. 1456(c)(3)(B)(iii)];

(C) if operations threaten national security or national defense; or

(D) if the Secretary determines, because of exceptional geological conditions in the lease areas, exceptional resource values in the marine or coastal environment, or other exceptional circumstances, that (i) implementation of the plan would probably cause serious harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), to property, to any mineral deposits (in areas leased or not leased), to the national security or defense, or to the marine, coastal or human environments, (ii) the threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time, and (iii) the advantages of disapproving the plan outweigh the advantages of development and production.


(2)(A) If a plan is disapproved—(i) under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1); or

(ii) under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) with respect to a lease issued after approval of a coastal zone management program pursuant to the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455),


the lessee shall not be entitled to compensation because of such disapproval.

(B) If a plan is disapproved—(i) under subparagraph (C) or (D) of paragraph (1); or

(ii) under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) with respect to a lease issued before approval of a coastal zone management program pursuant to the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 [16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.], and such approval occurs after the lessee has submitted a plan to the Secretary,


the term of the lease shall be duly extended, and at any time within five years after such disapproval, the lessee may reapply for approval of the same or a modified plan, and the Secretary shall approve, disapprove, or require modifications of such plan in accordance with this subsection.

(C) Upon expiration of the five-year period described in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, or, in the Secretary’s discretion, at an earlier time upon request of a lessee, if the Secretary has not approved a plan, the Secretary shall cancel the lease and the lessee shall be entitled to receive compensation in accordance with section 1334(a)(2)(C) of this title. The Secretary may, at any time within the five-year period described in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, require the lessee to submit a development and production plan for approval, disapproval, or modification. If the lessee fails to submit a required plan expeditiously and in good faith, the Secretary shall find that the lessee has not been duly diligent in pursuing his obligations under the lease, and shall immediately initiate procedures to cancel such lease, without compensation, under the provisions of section 1334(c) of this title.


(3) The Secretary shall, from time to time, review each plan approved under this section. Such review shall be based upon changes in available information and other onshore or offshore conditions affecting or impacted by development and production pursuant to such plan. If the review indicates that the plan should be revised to meet the requirements of this subsection, the Secretary shall require such revision.


(i) Approval of revision of approved planThe Secretary may approve any revision of an approved plan proposed by the lessee if he determines that such revision will lead to greater recovery of oil and natural gas, improve the efficiency, safety, and environmental protection of the recovery operation, is the only means available to avoid substantial economic hardship to the lessee, or is otherwise not inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter, to the extent such revision is consistent with protection of the human, marine, and coastal environments. Any revision of an approved plan which the Secretary determines is significant shall be reviewed in accordance with subsections (d) through (f) of this section.


(j) Cancellation of lease on failure to submit plan or comply with approved planWhenever the owner of any lease fails to submit a plan in accordance with regulations issued under this section, or fails to comply with an approved plan, the lease may be canceled in accordance with section 1334(c) and (d) of this title. Termination of a lease because of failure to comply with an approved plan, including required modifications or revisions, shall not entitle a lessee to any compensation.


(k) Production and transportation of natural gas; submission of plan to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; impact statementIf any development and production plan submitted to the Secretary pursuant to this section provides for the production and transportation of natural gas, the lessee shall contemporaneously submit to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that portion of such plan which relates to production of natural gas and the facilities for transportation of natural gas. The Secretary and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission shall agree as to which of them shall prepare an environmental impact statement pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 [42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.] applicable to such portion of such plan, or conduct studies as to the effect on the environment of implementing it. Thereafter, the findings and recommendations by the agency preparing such environmental impact statement or conducting such studies pursuant to such agreement shall be adopted by the other agency, and such other agency shall not independently prepare another environmental impact statement or duplicate such studies with respect to such portion of such plan, but the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, in connection with its review of an application for a certificate of public convenience and necessity applicable to such transportation facilities pursuant to section 717f of title 15, may prepare such environmental studies or statement relevant to certification of such transportation facilities as have not been covered by an environmental impact statement or studies prepared by the Secretary. The Secretary, in consultation with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, shall promulgate rules to implement this subsection, but the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission shall retain sole authority with respect to rules and procedures applicable to the filing of any application with the Commission and to all aspects of the Commission’s review of, and action on, any such application.


(l) Application of provisions to leases in Gulf of MexicoThe Secretary may require the provisions of this section to apply to an oil and gas lease issued or maintained under this subchapter, which is located in that area of the Gulf of Mexico which is adjacent to the State of Florida, as determined pursuant to section 1333(a)(2) of this title.


(Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 345, § 25, as added Pub. L. 95–372, title II, § 208, Sept. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 659.)


References in TextThe National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in subsecs. (e)(2), (h)(1), and (k), is Pub. L. 91–190, Jan. 1, 1970, 83 Stat. 852, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 55 (§ 4321 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 4321 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, referred to in subsec. (h)(2)(A)(ii), (B)(ii), is title III of Pub. L. 89–454, as added by Pub. L. 92–583, Oct. 27, 1972, 86 Stat. 1280, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1451 et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1451 of Title 16 and Tables.


