§ 3058aa–1. Grants to promote comprehensive State elder justice systems(a) Purpose and authorityFor each fiscal year, the Assistant Secretary may make grants to States, on a competitive basis, in accordance with this section, to promote the development and implementation, within each such State, of a comprehensive elder justice system, as defined in subsection (b).


(b) Comprehensive elder justice system definedIn this section, the term “comprehensive elder justice system” means an integrated, multidisciplinary, and collaborative system for preventing, detecting, and addressing elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation in a manner that—(1) provides for widespread, convenient public access to the range of available elder justice information, programs, and services;

(2) coordinates the efforts of public health, social service, and law enforcement authorities, as well as other appropriate public and private entities, to identify and diminish duplication and gaps in the system;

(3) provides a uniform method for the standardization, collection, management, analysis, and reporting of data; and

(4) provides such other elements as the Assistant Secretary determines appropriate.


(c) ApplicationsTo be eligible to receive a grant under this section for a fiscal year, a State shall submit an application to the Assistant Secretary, at such time, in such manner, and containing such information and assurances as the Assistant Secretary determines appropriate.


(d) Amount of grantsThe amount of a grant to a State with an application approved under this section for a fiscal year shall be such amount as the Assistant Secretary determines appropriate.


(e) Use of funds(1) In generalA State that receives a grant under this section shall use funds made available through such grant to promote the development and implementation of a comprehensive elder justice system by—(A) establishing formal working relationships among public and private providers of elder justice programs, service providers, and stakeholders in order to create a unified elder justice network across such State to coordinate programmatic efforts;

(B) facilitating and supporting the development of a management information system and standard data elements;

(C) providing for appropriate education (including educating the public about the range of available elder justice information, programs, and services), training, and technical assistance; and

(D) taking such other steps as the Assistant Secretary determines appropriate.


(2) Maintenance of effortFunds made available to States pursuant to this section shall be used to supplement and not supplant other Federal, State, and local funds expended to support activities described in paragraph (1).



(Pub. L. 89–73, title VII, § 752, as added Pub. L. 109–365, title VII, § 704(2), Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2593.)
