§ 285a–11. Pediatric cancer research and awareness(a) Pediatric cancer research(1) Programs of research excellence in pediatric cancerThe Secretary, in collaboration with the Director of NIH and other Federal agencies with interest in prevention and treatment of pediatric cancer, shall continue to enhance, expand, and intensify pediatric cancer research and other activities related to pediatric cancer, including therapeutically applicable research to generate effective treatments, pediatric preclinical testing, and pediatric clinical trials through National Cancer Institute-supported pediatric cancer clinical trial groups and their member institutions. In enhancing, expanding, and intensifying such research and other activities, the Secretary is encouraged to take into consideration the application of such research and other activities for minority, health disparity, and medically underserved communities. For purposes of this section, the term “pediatric cancer research” means research on the causes, prevention, diagnosis, recognition, treatment, and long-term effects of pediatric cancer.


(2) Peer review requirementsAll grants awarded under this subsection shall be awarded in accordance with section 289a of this title.



(b) Public awareness of pediatric cancers and available treatments and research(1) In generalThe Secretary may award grants to childhood cancer professional and direct service organizations for the expansion and widespread implementation of—(A) activities that provide available information on treatment protocols to ensure early access to the best available therapies and clinical trials for pediatric cancers;

(B) activities that provide available information on the late effects of pediatric cancer treatment to ensure access to necessary long-term medical and psychological care; and

(C) direct resource services such as educational outreach for parents, peer-to-peer and parent-to-parent support networks, information on school re-entry and postsecondary education, and resource directories or referral services for financial assistance, psychological counseling, and other support services.


In awarding grants under this paragraph, the Secretary is encouraged to take into consideration the extent to which an entity would use such grant for purposes of making activities and services described in this paragraph available to minority, health disparity, and medically underserved communities.

(2) Performance measurement, transparency, and accountabilityFor each grant awarded under this subsection, the Secretary shall develop and implement metrics-based performance measures to assess the effectiveness of activities funded under such grant.


(3) Informational requirementsAny information made available pursuant to a grant awarded under paragraph (1) shall be—(A) culturally and linguistically appropriate as needed by patients and families affected by childhood cancer; and

(B) approved by the Secretary.



(c) Rule of constructionNothing in this section shall be construed as being inconsistent with the goals and purposes of the Minority Health and Health Disparities Research and Education Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 202 note).11 So in original. See References in Text note below.


(d) Authorization of appropriationsFor purposes of carrying out this section and section 280e–3a of this title, there are authorized to be appropriated $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013. Such authorization of appropriations is in addition to the authorization of appropriations established in section 282a of this title with respect to such purpose. Funds appropriated under this subsection shall remain available until expended.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 417E, as added Pub. L. 110–285, § 4(a), July 29, 2008, 122 Stat. 2629.)


References in TextThe Minority Health and Health Disparities Research and Education Act of 2000, referred to in subsec. (c), is Pub. L. 106–525, Nov. 22, 2000, 114 Stat. 2495. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2000 Amendments note set out under section 201 of this title and Tables.


