§ 285d–5. Arthritis and musculoskeletal diseases demonstration projects(a) Grants for establishment and supportThe Director of the Institute may make grants to public and private nonprofit entities to establish and support projects for the development and demonstration of methods for screening, detection, and referral for treatment of arthritis and musculoskeletal diseases and for the dissemination of information on such methods to the health and allied health professions. Activities under such projects shall be coordinated with Federal, State, local, and regional health agencies, centers assisted under section 285d–6 of this title, and the data system established under subsection (c) of this section.


(b) Programs includedProjects supported under this section shall include—(1) programs which emphasize the development and demonstration of new and improved methods of screening and early detection, referral for treatment, and diagnosis of individuals with a risk of developing arthritis and musculoskeletal diseases;

(2) programs which emphasize the development and demonstration of new and improved methods for patient referral from local hospitals and physicians to appropriate centers for early diagnosis and treatment;

(3) programs which emphasize the development and demonstration of new and improved means of standardizing patient data and recordkeeping;

(4) programs which emphasize the development and demonstration of new and improved methods of dissemination of knowledge about the programs, methods, and means referred to in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection to health and allied health professionals;

(5) programs which emphasize the development and demonstration of new and improved methods for the dissemination to the general public of information—(A) on the importance of early detection of arthritis and musculoskeletal diseases, of seeking prompt treatment, and of following an appropriate regimen; and

(B) to discourage the promotion and use of unapproved and ineffective diagnostic, preventive treatment, and control methods for arthritis and unapproved and ineffective drugs and devices for arthritis and musculoskeletal diseases; and


(6) projects for investigation into the epidemiology of all forms and aspects of arthritis and musculoskeletal diseases, including investigations into the social, environmental, behavioral, nutritional, and genetic determinants and influences involved in the epidemiology of arthritis and musculoskeletal diseases.


(c) Standardization of patient data and recordkeepingThe Director shall provide for the standardization of patient data and recordkeeping for the collection, storage, analysis, retrieval, and dissemination of such data in cooperation with projects assisted under this section, centers assisted under section 285d–6 of this title, and other persons engaged in arthritis and musculoskeletal disease programs.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 440, as added Pub. L. 99–158, § 2, Nov. 20, 1985, 99 Stat. 850.)
