§ 290bb–35. Services for youth offenders(a) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Director of the Center for Mental Health Services, and in consultation with the Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment, the Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, and the Director of the Special Education Programs, shall award grants on a competitive basis to State or local juvenile justice agencies to enable such agencies to provide aftercare services for youth offenders who have been discharged from facilities in the juvenile or criminal justice system and have serious emotional disturbances or are at risk of developing such disturbances.


(b) Use of fundsA State or local juvenile justice agency receiving a grant under subsection (a) of this section shall use the amounts provided under the grant—(1) to develop a plan describing the manner in which the agency will provide services for each youth offender who has a serious emotional disturbance and has been detained or incarcerated in facilities within the juvenile or criminal justice system;

(2) to provide a network of core or aftercare services or access to such services for each youth offender, including diagnostic and evaluation services, substance abuse treatment services, outpatient mental health care services, medication management services, intensive home-based therapy, intensive day treatment services, respite care, and therapeutic foster care;

(3) to establish a program that coordinates with other State and local agencies providing recreational, social, educational, vocational, or operational services for youth, to enable the agency receiving a grant under this section to provide community-based system of care services for each youth offender that addresses the special needs of the youth and helps the youth access all of the aforementioned services; and

(4) using not more than 20 percent of funds received, to provide planning and transition services as described in paragraph (3) for youth offenders while such youth are incarcerated or detained.


(c) ApplicationA State or local juvenile justice agency that desires a grant under subsection (a) of this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(d) ReportNot later than 3 years after October 17, 2000, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall prepare and submit, to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Commerce of the House of Representatives, a report that describes the services provided pursuant to this section.


(e) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Serious emotional disturbanceThe term “serious emotional disturbance” with respect to a youth offender means an offender who currently, or at any time within the 1-year period ending on the day on which services are sought under this section, has a diagnosable mental, behavioral, or emotional disorder that functionally impairs the offender’s life by substantially limiting the offender’s role in family, school, or community activities, and interfering with the offender’s ability to achieve or maintain one or more developmentally-appropriate social, behavior, cognitive, communicative, or adaptive skills.


(2) Community-based system of careThe term “community-based system of care” means the provision of services for the youth offender by various State or local agencies that in an interagency fashion or operating as a network addresses the recreational, social, educational, vocational, mental health, substance abuse, and operational needs of the youth offender.


(3) Youth offenderThe term “youth offender” means an individual who is 21 years of age or younger who has been discharged from a State or local juvenile or criminal justice system, except that if the individual is between the ages of 18 and 21 years, such individual has had contact with the State or local juvenile or criminal justice system prior to attaining 18 years of age and is under the jurisdiction of such a system at the time services are sought.



(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $40,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2002 and 2003.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 520D, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXI, § 3107, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1179.)


Change of Name
Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.


