§ 17071. Energy Code improvements applicable to manufactured housing(a) Establishment of standards(1) In generalNot later than 4 years after December 19, 2007, the Secretary shall by regulation establish standards for energy efficiency in manufactured housing.


(2) Notice, comment, and consultationStandards described in paragraph (1) shall be established after—(A) notice and an opportunity for comment by manufacturers of manufactured housing and other interested parties; and

(B) consultation with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, who may seek further counsel from the Manufactured Housing Consensus Committee.



(b) Requirements(1) International Energy Conservation CodeThe energy conservation standards established under this section shall be based on the most recent version of the International Energy Conservation Code (including supplements), except in cases in which the Secretary finds that the code 11 So in original. Probably should be “Code”. is not cost-effective, or a more stringent standard would be more cost-effective, based on the impact of the code 1 on the purchase price of manufactured housing and on total life-cycle construction and operating costs.


(2) ConsiderationsThe energy conservation standards established under this section may—(A) take into consideration the design and factory construction techniques of manufactured homes;

(B) be based on the climate zones established by the Department of Housing and Urban Development rather than the climate zones under the International Energy Conservation Code; and

(C) provide for alternative practices that result in net estimated energy consumption equal to or less than the specified standards.


(3) UpdatingThe energy conservation standards established under this section shall be updated not later than—(A) 1 year after December 19, 2007; and

(B) 1 year after any revision to the International Energy Conservation Code.



(c) EnforcementAny manufacturer of manufactured housing that violates a provision of the regulations under subsection (a) is liable to the United States for a civil penalty in an amount not exceeding 1 percent of the manufacturer’s retail list price of the manufactured housing.


(Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 413, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1601.)
