“Section 211 - Sector Grants“(a) In order to assist the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia in its efforts to promote the economic advancement, budgetary self-reliance, and economic self-sufficiency of its people, and in recognition of the special relationship that exists between the Federated States of Micronesia and the United States, the Government of the United States shall provide assistance on a sector grant basis for a period of twenty years in the amounts set forth in section 216, commencing on the effective date of this Compact, as amended. Such grants shall be used for assistance in the sectors of education, health care, private sector development, the environment, public sector capacity building, and public infrastructure, or for other sectors as mutually agreed, with priorities in the education and health care sectors. For each year such sector grant assistance is made available, the proposed division of this amount among these sectors shall be certified to the Government of the United States by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and shall be subject to the concurrence of the Government of the United States. In such case, the Government of the United States shall disburse the agreed upon amounts and monitor the use of such sector grants in accordance with the provisions of this Article and the Agreement Concerning Procedures for the Implementation of United States Economic Assistance Provided in the Compact of Free Association, as amended[,] Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia (‘Fiscal Procedures Agreement’) which shall come into effect simultaneously with this Compact, as amended. The provision of any United States assistance under the Compact, as amended, the Fiscal Procedures Agreement, the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia Implementing Section 215 and Section 216 of the Compact, as Amended, Regarding a Trust Fund (Trust Fund Agreement), or any other subsidiary agreement to the Compact, as amended, shall constitute ‘a particular distribution . . . required by the terms or special nature of the assistance’ for purposes of Article XII, section 1(b) of the Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia.“(1) Education.—United States grant assistance shall be made available in accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this section to support and improve the educational system of the Federated States of Micronesia and develop the human, financial, and material resources necessary for the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to perform these services. Emphasis should be placed on advancing a quality basic education system.

“(2) Health.—United States grant assistance shall be made available in accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this section to support and improve the delivery of preventive, curative and environmental care and develop the human, financial, and material resources necessary for the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to perform these services.

“(3) Private sector development.—United States grant assistance shall be made available in accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this section to support the efforts of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to attract foreign investment and increase indigenous business activity by vitalizing the commercial environment, ensuring fair and equitable application of the law, promoting adherence to core labor standards, and maintaining progress toward privatization of state-owned and partially state-owned enterprises, and engaging in other reforms.

“(4) Capacity building in the public sector.—United States grant assistance shall be made available in accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this section to support the efforts of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to build effective, accountable and transparent national, state, and local government and other public sector institutions and systems.

“(5) Environment.—United States grant assistance shall be made available in accordance with the plan described in subsection (c) of this section to increase environmental protection; conserve and achieve sustainable use of natural resources; and engage in environmental infrastructure planning, design construction and operation.

“(6) Public infrastructure.—“(i) U.S. annual grant assistance shall be made available in accordance with a list of specific projects included in the plan described in subsection (c) of this section to assist the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia in its efforts to provide adequate public infrastructure.

“(ii) Infrastructure and maintenance Fund.—Five percent of the annual public infrastructure grant made available under paragraph (i) of this subsection shall be set aside, with an equal contribution from the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, as a contribution to an Infrastructure Maintenance Fund (IMF). Administration of the Infrastructure Maintenance Fund shall be governed by the Fiscal Procedures Agreement.



“(b) Humanitarian Assistance.—Federated States of Micronesia Program. In recognition of the special development needs of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Government of the United States shall make available to the Federated States of Micronesia, on its request and to be deducted from the grant amount made available under subsection (a) of this section, a Humanitarian Assistance - Federated States of Micronesia (‘HAFSM’) Program with emphasis on health, education, and infrastructure (including transportation), projects. The terms and conditions of the HAFSM shall be set forth in the Agreement Regarding the Military Use and Operating Rights of the Government of the United States in the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia Concluded Pursuant to Sections 211(b), 321, and 323 of the Compact of Free Association, as amended, which shall come into effect simultaneously with the amendments to this Compact.

“(c) Development Plan.—The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall prepare and maintain an official overall development plan. The plan shall be strategic in nature, shall be continuously reviewed and updated through the annual budget process, and shall make projections on a multi-year rolling basis. Each of the sectors named in subsection (a) of this section, or other sectors as mutually agreed, shall be accorded specific treatment in the plan. Insofar as grants funds are involved, the plan shall be subject to the concurrence of the Government of the United States.

“(d) Disaster Assistance Emergency Fund.—An amount of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) shall be provided annually, with an equal contribution from the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, as a contribution to a ‘Disaster Assistance Emergency Fund (DAEF).’ Any funds from the DAEF may be used only for assistance and rehabilitation resulting from disasters and emergencies. The funds will be accessed upon declaration by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, with the concurrence of the United States Chief of Mission to the Federated States of Micronesia. The Administration of the DAEF shall be governed by the Fiscal Procedures Agreement and the Federal Programs and Services Agreement referred to in section 231. [As amended Pub. L. 110–229, title VIII, § 806(b)(1)(D), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 872.]

