“Sec. 46. [Claims Commission.] (a) In the event that any disputes arise between the United States and the State of Alaska prior to January 1, 1965, concerning the transfer, conveyance, or other disposal of property to the State of Alaska pursuant to section 6(e) of the Act of July 7, 1958 (72 Stat. 339, 340) [set out as a note above], providing for the admission of the State of Alaska into the Union, or pursuant to this Act, the President is authorized (1) to appoint by and with the advice and consent of the Senate a temporary commission of three persons, to consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, and settle such disputes, and (2) to make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to establish such temporary commission or as may be necessary to terminate such temporary commission at the conclusion of its duties. In carrying out its duties under this section, such commission may hold such hearings, take such testimony, sit and act at such times and places, and incur such expenditures as the commission deems necessary. No commission shall be appointed under authority of this subsection after June 30, 1965.

“(b) The commission may, without regard to the civil service laws and the Classification Act of 1949, employ and fix the compensation of such employees as it deems necessary to carry out its duties under this section. The commission is authorized to use the facilities, information, and personnel of the departments, agencies, and establishments of the executive branch of the United States Government which it deems necessary to carry out its duties; and each such department, agency, and instrumentality is authorized to furnish such facilities, information, and personnel to the commission upon request made by the commission. The commission shall reimburse each such department, agency, or instrumentality for the services of any personnel utilized. The commission may establish such procedures, rules, and regulations as may be necessary to carry out its duties under this section.

“(c) No member of such commission shall be an officer or employee of the United States or of the State of Alaska. Any commissioner may be removed by the President for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office. A vacancy in the commission shall not impair the right of the remaining commissioners to exercise all the powers of the commission. Each member of the commission shall be paid compensation at the rate of $50 per day for each day spent in the work of the commission, shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary travel expenses, and shall receive a per diem allowance in accordance with the provisions of the Travel Expense Act of 1949, as amended, when away from his usual place of residence.

“(d) There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to enable the commission to perform its duties under this section.

