§ 13841. Community development corporation improvement grants(a) PurposeIt is the purpose of this section to provide assistance to community development corporations to upgrade the management and operating capacity of such corporations and to enhance the resources available to enable such corporations to increase their community economic development activities.


(b) Skill enhancement grants(1) In generalThe Secretary shall award grants to community development corporations to enable such corporations to attain or enhance the business management and development skills of the individuals that manage such corporations to enable such corporations to seek the public and private resources necessary to develop community economic development projects.


(2) Use of fundsA recipient of a grant under paragraph (1) may use amounts received under such grant—(A) to acquire training and technical assistance from agencies or institutions that have extensive experience in the development and management of low-income community economic development projects; or

(B) to acquire such assistance from other highly successful community development corporations.



(c) Operating grants(1) In generalThe Secretary shall award grants to community development corporations to enable such corporations to support an administrative capacity for the planning, development, and management of low-income community economic development projects.


(2) Use of fundsA recipient of a grant under paragraph (1) may use amounts received under such grant—(A) to conduct evaluations of the feasibility of potential low-income community economic development projects that address identified needs in the low-income community and that conform to those projects and activities permitted under subpart 1; 11 See References in Text note below.

(B) to develop a business plan related to such a potential project; or

(C) to mobilize resources to be contributed to a planned low-income community economic development project or strategy.



(d) ApplicationsA community development corporation that desires to receive a grant under this section shall prepare and submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.


(e) Amount available for community development corporationAmounts provided under this section to a community development corporation shall not exceed $75,000 per year. Such corporations may apply for grants under this section for up to 3 consecutive years, except that such corporations shall be required to submit a new application for each grant for which such corporation desires to receive and compete on the basis of such applications in the selection process.


(Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31121, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1885.)


References in TextSubpart 1, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(A), was in the original “subtitle A”, and was translated as reading “chapter 1”, meaning chapter 1 of subtitle K of title III of Pub. L. 103–322, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.


