§ 3715a. Consolidation of financial management systems of Office of Justice Programs(a) Consolidation of accounting activities and procurement activitiesThe Assistant Attorney General of the Office of Justice Programs, in coordination with the Chief Information Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Justice, shall ensure that—(1) all accounting activities for all elements of the Office of Justice Programs are carried out under the direct management of the Office of the Comptroller; and

(2) all procurement activities for all elements of the Office are carried out under the direct management of the Office of Administration.


(b) Further consolidation of procurement activitiesThe Assistant Attorney General, in coordination with the Chief Information Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Justice, shall ensure that, on and after September 30, 2008—(1) all procurement activities for all elements of the Office are carried out through a single management office; and

(2) all contracts and purchase orders used in carrying out those activities are processed through a single procurement system.


(c) Consolidation of financial management systemsThe Assistant Attorney General, in coordination with the Chief Information Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Justice, shall ensure that, on and after September 30, 2010, all financial management activities (including human resources, payroll, and accounting activities, as well as procurement activities) of all elements of the Office are carried out through a single financial management system.


(d) Achieving compliance(1) ScheduleThe Assistant Attorney General shall undertake a scheduled consolidation of operations to achieve compliance with the requirements of this section.


(2) Specific requirementsWith respect to achieving compliance with the requirements of—(A) subsection (a) of this section, the consolidation of operations shall be initiated not later than 90 days after January 5, 2006; and

(B) subsections (b) and (c) of this section, the consolidation of operations shall be initiated not later than September 30, 2006, and shall be carried out by the Office of Administration, in consultation with the Chief Information Officer and the Office of Audit, Assessment, and Management.



(Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1162, Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 3118.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, and not as part of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 which comprises this chapter.


