“SEC. 5. REVIEW, IDENTIFICATION, TRANSMISSION TO THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES, AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF ASSASSINATION RECORDS BY GOVERNMENT OFFICES.“(a) In General.—(1) As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 26, 1992], each Government office shall identify and organize its records relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and prepare them for transmission to the Archivist for inclusion in the Collection.

“(2) No assassination record shall be destroyed, altered, or mutilated in any way.

“(3) No assassination record made available or disclosed to the public prior to the date of enactment of this Act may be withheld, redacted, postponed for public disclosure, or reclassified.

“(4) No assassination record created by a person or entity outside government (excluding names or identities consistent with the requirements of section 6) shall be withheld, redacted, postponed for public disclosure, or reclassified.


“(b) Custody of Assassination Records Pending Review.—During the review by Government offices and pending review activity by the Review Board, each Government office shall retain custody of its assassination records for purposes of preservation, security, and efficiency, unless—“(1) the Review Board requires the physical transfer of records for purposes of conducting an independent and impartial review;

“(2) transfer is necessary for an administrative hearing or other Review Board function; or

“(3) it is a third agency record described in subsection (c)(2)(C).


“(c) Review.—(1) Not later than 300 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 26, 1992], each Government office shall review, identify and organize each assassination record in its custody or possession for disclosure to the public, review by the Review Board, and transmission to the Archivist.

“(2) In carrying out paragraph (1), a Government office shall—“(A) determine which of its records are assassination records;

“(B) determine which of its assassination records have been officially disclosed or publicly available in a complete and unredacted form;

“(C)(i) determine which of its assassination records, or particular information contained in such a record, was created by a third agency or by another Government office; and

“(ii) transmit to a third agency or other Government office those records, or particular information contained in those records, or complete and accurate copies thereof;


“(D)(i) determine whether its assassination records or particular information in assassination records are covered by the standards for postponement of public disclosure under this Act; and

“(ii) specify on the identification aid required by subsection (d) the applicable postponement provision contained in section 6;


“(E) organize and make available to the Review Board all assassination records identified under subparagraph (D) the public disclosure of which in whole or in part may be postponed under this Act;

“(F) organize and make available to the Review Board any record concerning which the office has any uncertainty as to whether the record is an assassination record governed by this Act;

“(G) give priority to—“(i) the identification, review, and transmission of all assassination records publicly available or disclosed as of the date of enactment of this Act in a redacted or edited form; and

“(ii) the identification, review, and transmission, under the standards for postponement set forth in this Act, of assassination records that on the date of enactment of this Act are the subject of litigation under section 552 of title 5, United States Code; and


“(H) make available to the Review Board any additional information and records that the Review Board has reason to believe it requires for conducting a review under this Act.


“(3) The Director of each archival depository established under section 2112 of title 44, United States Code, shall have as a priority the expedited review for public disclosure of assassination records in the possession and custody of the depository, and shall make such records available to the Review Board as required by this Act.


“(d) Identification Aids.—(1)(A) Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 26, 1992], the Archivist, in consultation with the appropriate Government offices, shall prepare and make available to all Government offices a standard form of identification or finding aid for use with each assassination record subject to review under this Act.

“(B) The Archivist shall ensure that the identification aid program is established in such a manner as to result in the creation of a uniform system of electronic records by Government offices that are compatible with each other.


“(2) Upon completion of an identification aid, a Government office shall—“(A) attach a printed copy to the record it describes;

“(B) transmit to the Review Board a printed copy; and

“(C) attach a printed copy to each assassination record it describes when it is transmitted to the Archivist.


“(3) Assassination records which are in the possession of the National Archives on the date of enactment of this Act, and which have been publicly available in their entirety without redaction, shall be made available in the Collection without any additional review by the Review Board or another authorized office under this Act, and shall not be required to have such an identification aid unless required by the Archivist.


“(e) Transmission to the National Archives.—Each Government office shall—“(1) transmit to the Archivist, and make immediately available to the public, all assassination records that can be publicly disclosed, including those that are publicly available on the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 26, 1992], without any redaction, adjustment, or withholding under the standards of this Act; and

“(2) transmit to the Archivist upon approval for postponement by the Review Board or upon completion of other action authorized by this Act, all assassination records the public disclosure of which has been postponed, in whole or in part, under the standards of this Act, to become part of the protected Collection.


“(f) Custody of Postponed Assassination Records.—An assassination record the public disclosure of which has been postponed shall, pending transmission to the Archivist, be held for reasons of security and preservation by the originating body until such time as the information security program has been established at the National Archives as required in section 4(e)(2).

“(g) Periodic Review of Postponed Assassination Records.—(1) All postponed or redacted records shall be reviewed periodically by the originating agency and the Archivist consistent with the recommendations of the Review Board under section 9(c)(3)(B).

“(2)(A) A periodic review shall address the public disclosure of additional assassination records in the Collection under the standards of this Act.

“(B) All postponed assassination records determined to require continued postponement shall require an unclassified written description of the reason for such continued postponement. Such description shall be provided to the Archivist and published in the Federal Register upon determination.

“(C) The periodic review of postponed assassination records shall serve to downgrade and declassify security classified information.

“(D) Each assassination record shall be publicly disclosed in full, and available in the Collection no later than the date that is 25 years after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 26, 1992], unless the President certifies, as required by this Act, that—“(i) continued postponement is made necessary by an identifiable harm to the military defense, intelligence operations, law enforcement, or conduct of foreign relations; and

“(ii) the identifiable harm is of such gravity that it outweighs the public interest in disclosure.




“(h) Fees for Copying.—Executive branch agencies shall—“(1) charge fees for copying assassination records; and

“(2) grant waivers of such fees pursuant to the standards established by section 552(a)(4) of title 5, United States Code.


