§ 1862n–7. Reports(a) Grant size and durationNot later than 6 months after December 19, 2002, the Director shall transmit to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report describing the impact that increasing the average grant size and duration would have on minority-serving institutions and on institutions located in States where the Foundation’s Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (established under section 1862g of this title) is carrying out activities.


(b) FacultyNot later than 3 months after December 19, 2002, the Director shall enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences to assess gender differences in the careers of science and engineering faculty. This study shall build on the Academy’s work on gender differences in the carriers of doctoral scientists and engineers and examine issues such as faculty hiring, promotion, tenure, and allocation of resources including laboratory space. Upon completion, the results of this study shall be transmitted to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.


(c) Grant fundingNot later than 3 months after December 19, 2002, the Director shall enter into an agreement with an appropriate party to assess gender differences in the distribution of external Federal research and development funding. This study shall examine differences in amounts requested and awarded, by gender, in major Federal external grant programs. Upon completion, the results of this study shall be transmitted to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.


(d) Study of broadband network access for schools and libraries(1) Report to CongressThe Director shall conduct a study of the issues described in paragraph (3), and not later than 1 year after December 19, 2002, transmit to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report including recommendations to address those issues. Such report shall be updated annually for 4 additional years.


(2) ConsultationIn preparing the reports under paragraph (1), the Director shall consult with Federal agencies and educational entities as the Director considers appropriate.


(3) Issues to be addressedThe reports shall—(A) identify the availability of high-speed, large bandwidth capacity access to different demographic groups served by elementary schools, secondary schools, and libraries in the United States;

(B) identify how the provision of high-speed, large bandwidth capacity access to the Internet to such schools and libraries can be effectively utilized within each school and library;

(C) consider the effect that specific or regional circumstances may have on the ability of such institutions to acquire high-speed, large bandwidth capacity access to achieve universal connectivity as an effective tool in the education process; and

(D) include options and recommendations to address the challenges and issues identified in the reports.



(e) Minority-serving institution funding(1) Annual reporting requiredThe Director shall submit an annual report, along with the President’s annual budget request, to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate on the amount of funding awarded by the Foundation to minority-serving institutions, including funding received as members of consortia. The report shall include information on such funding to minority-serving institutions—(A) expressed as a percentage of funding to all institutions of higher education for each appropriations account within the Foundation’s budget; and

(B) for the preceding 10 years.


(2) Report on ways to improve fundingWithin one year after December 19, 2002, the Director shall submit to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report on recommendations on how the Foundation can improve funding to minority-serving institutions.



(Pub. L. 107–368, § 18, Dec. 19, 2002, 116 Stat. 3061.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2002, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.


Change of Name
Committee on Science of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007. Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.


Definitions
For definitions of terms used in this section, see section 4 of Pub. L. 107–368, set out as a note under section 1862n of this title.


