§ 17082. Zero Net Energy Commercial Buildings Initiative(a) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) ConsortiumThe term “consortium” means a High-Performance Green Building Consortium selected by the Commercial Director.


(2) InitiativeThe term “initiative” means the Zero-Net-Energy Commercial Buildings Initiative established under subsection (b)(1).


(3) Zero-net-energy commercial buildingThe term “zero-net-energy commercial building” means a high-performance commercial building that is designed, constructed, and operated—(A) to require a greatly reduced quantity of energy to operate;

(B) to meet the balance of energy needs from sources of energy that do not produce greenhouse gases;

(C) in a manner that will result in no net emissions of greenhouse gases; and

(D) to be economically viable.



(b) Establishment(1) In generalThe Commercial Director shall establish an initiative, to be known as the “Zero-Net-Energy Commercial Buildings Initiative”—(A) to reduce the quantity of energy consumed by commercial buildings located in the United States; and

(B) to achieve the development of zero net energy commercial buildings in the United States.


(2) Consortium(A) In generalNot later than 180 days after December 19, 2007, the Commercial Director shall competitively select, and enter into an agreement with, a consortium to develop and carry out the initiative.


(B) AgreementsIn entering into an agreement with a consortium under subparagraph (A), the Commercial Director shall use the authority described in section 7256(g) of this title, to the maximum extent practicable.




(c) Goal of initiativeThe goal of the initiative shall be to develop and disseminate technologies, practices, and policies for the development and establishment of zero net energy commercial buildings for—(1) any commercial building newly constructed in the United States by 2030;

(2) 50 percent of the commercial building stock of the United States by 2040; and

(3) all commercial buildings in the United States by 2050.


(d) ComponentsIn carrying out the initiative, the Commercial Director, in consultation with the consortium, may—(1) conduct research and development on building science, design, materials, components, equipment and controls, operation and other practices, integration, energy use measurement, and benchmarking;

(2) conduct pilot programs and demonstration projects to evaluate replicable approaches to achieving energy efficient commercial buildings for a variety of building types in a variety of climate zones;

(3) conduct deployment, dissemination, and technical assistance activities to encourage widespread adoption of technologies, practices, and policies to achieve energy efficient commercial buildings;

(4) conduct other research, development, demonstration, and deployment activities necessary to achieve each goal of the initiative, as determined by the Commercial Director, in consultation with the consortium;

(5) develop training materials and courses for building professionals and trades on achieving cost-effective high-performance energy efficient buildings;

(6) develop and disseminate public education materials to share information on the benefits and cost-effectiveness of high-performance energy efficient buildings;

(7) support code-setting organizations and State and local governments in developing minimum performance standards in building codes that recognize the ready availability of many technologies utilized in high-performance energy efficient buildings;

(8) develop strategies for overcoming the split incentives between builders and purchasers, and landlords and tenants, to ensure that energy efficiency and high-performance investments are made that are cost-effective on a lifecycle basis; and

(9) develop improved means of measurement and verification of energy savings and performance for public dissemination.


(e) Cost sharingIn carrying out this section, the Commercial Director shall require cost sharing in accordance with section 16352 of this title.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section—(1) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;

(2) $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 and 2010;

(3) $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2011 and 2012; and

(4) $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2013 through 2018.


(Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 422, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1604.)
