§ 300ii. Definitions
In this subchapter:(1) Adult with a special needThe term “adult with a special need” means a person 18 years of age or older who requires care or supervision to—(A) meet the person’s basic needs;

(B) prevent physical self-injury or injury to others; or

(C) avoid placement in an institutional facility.


(2) Aging and disability resource centerThe term “aging and disability resource center” means an entity administering a program established by the State, as part of the State’s system of long-term care, to provide a coordinated system for providing—(A) comprehensive information on available public and private long-term care programs, options, and resources;

(B) personal counseling to assist individuals in assessing their existing or anticipated long-term care needs, and developing and implementing a plan for long-term care designed to meet their specific needs and circumstances; and

(C) consumer access to the range of publicly supported long-term care programs for which consumers may be eligible, by serving as a convenient point of entry for such programs.


(3) Child with a special needThe term “child with a special need” means an individual less than 18 years of age who requires care or supervision beyond that required of children generally to—(A) meet the child’s basic needs; or

(B) prevent physical injury, self-injury, or injury to others.


(4) Eligible State agencyThe term “eligible State agency” means a State agency that—(A) administers the State’s program under the Older Americans Act of 1965 [42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.], administers the State’s program under title XIX of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.], or is designated by the Governor of such State to administer the State’s programs under this subchapter;

(B) is an aging and disability resource center;

(C) works in collaboration with a public or private nonprofit statewide respite care coalition or organization; and

(D) demonstrates—(i) an ability to work with other State and community-based agencies;

(ii) an understanding of respite care and family caregiver issues across all age groups, disabilities, and chronic conditions; and

(iii) the capacity to ensure meaningful involvement of family members, family caregivers, and care recipients.



(5) Family caregiverThe term “family caregiver” means an unpaid family member, a foster parent, or another unpaid adult, who provides in-home monitoring, management, supervision, or treatment of a child or adult with a special need.


(6) Lifespan respite careThe term “lifespan respite care” means a coordinated system of accessible, community-based respite care services for family caregivers of children or adults with special needs.


(7) Respite careThe term “respite care” means planned or emergency care provided to a child or adult with a special need in order to provide temporary relief to the family caregiver of that child or adult.


(8) StateThe term “State” means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XXIX, § 2901, as added Pub. L. 109–442, § 2, Dec. 21, 2006, 120 Stat. 3291.)


References in TextThe Older Americans Act of 1965, referred to in par. (4)(A), is Pub. L. 89–73, July 14, 1965, 79 Stat. 218, which is classified generally to chapter 35 (§ 3001 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3001 of this title and Tables.
The Social Security Act, referred to in par. (4)(A), is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620. Title XIX of the Act is classified generally to subchapter XIX (§ 1396 et seq.) of chapter 7 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1305 of this title and Tables.


