§ 285l–4. Federal agency action(a) Identification of testsWith respect to each Federal agency carrying out a program that requires or recommends acute or chronic toxicological testing, such agency shall, not later than 180 days after receiving an ICCVAM test recommendation, identify and forward to the ICCVAM any relevant test method specified in a regulation or industry-wide guideline which specifically, or in practice requires, recommends, or encourages the use of an animal acute or chronic toxicological test method for which the ICCVAM test recommendation may be added or substituted.


(b) AlternativesEach Federal agency carrying out a program described in subsection (a) of this section shall promote and encourage the development and use of alternatives to animal test methods (including batteries of tests and test screens), where appropriate, for the purpose of complying with Federal statutes, regulations, guidelines, or recommendations (in each instance, and for each chemical class) if such test methods are found to be effective for generating data, in an amount and of a scientific value that is at least equivalent to the data generated from existing tests, for hazard identification, dose-response assessment, or risk assessment purposes.


(c) Test method validationEach Federal agency carrying out a program described in subsection (a) of this section shall ensure that any new or revised acute or chronic toxicity test method, including animal test methods and alternatives, is determined to be valid for its proposed use prior to requiring, recommending, or encouraging the application of such test method.


(d) ReviewNot later than 180 days after receipt of an ICCVAM test recommendation, a Federal agency carrying out a program described in subsection (a) of this section shall review such recommendation and notify the ICCVAM in writing of its findings.


(e) Recommendation adoptionEach Federal agency carrying out a program described in subsection (a) of this section, or its specific regulatory unit or units, shall adopt the ICCVAM test recommendation unless such Federal agency determines that—(1) the ICCVAM test recommendation is not adequate in terms of biological relevance for the regulatory goal authorized by that agency, or mandated by Congress;

(2) the ICCVAM test recommendation does not generate data, in an amount and of a scientific value that is at least equivalent to the data generated prior to such recommendation, for the appropriate hazard identification, dose-response assessment, or risk assessment purposes as the current test method recommended or required by that agency;

(3) the agency does not employ, recommend, or require testing for that class of chemical or for the recommended test endpoint; or

(4) the ICCVAM test recommendation is unacceptable for satisfactorily fulfilling the test needs for that particular agency and its respective congressional mandate.


(Pub. L. 106–545, § 4, Dec. 19, 2000, 114 Stat. 2723.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the ICCVAM Authorization Act of 2000, and not as part of the Public Health Service Act which comprises this chapter.


