§ 1962d–21. John Glenn Great Lakes basin program(a) Strategic plans(1) StudyThe Secretary shall conduct a comprehensive study of the Great Lakes region to ensure the future use, management, and protection of water resources and related resources of the Great Lakes basin.


(2) Report(A) In generalAs expeditiously as possible, but not later than 3 years after August 17, 1999, and every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report outlining a strategic plan for Corps of Engineers programs and proposed Corps of Engineers projects in the Great Lakes basin.


(B) ContentsThe plan shall include—(i) details of projects in the Great Lakes region relating to—(I) navigation improvements, maintenance, and operations for commercial and recreational vessels;

(II) environmental restoration activities;

(III) water level maintenance activities;

(IV) technical and planning assistance to States and remedial action planning committees;

(V) sediment transport analysis, sediment management planning, and activities to support prevention of excess sediment loadings;

(VI) flood damage reduction and shoreline erosion prevention; and

(VII) all other relevant activities of the Corps of Engineers; and


(ii) an analysis of factors limiting use of programs and authorities of the Corps of Engineers in existence on August 17, 1999, in the Great Lakes basin, including the need for new or modified authorities.



(3) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2000 through 2003.



(b) Great Lakes biohydrological information(1) Inventory(A) In generalNot later than 90 days after August 17, 1999, the Secretary shall request each Federal agency that may possess information relevant to the Great Lakes biohydrological system to provide an inventory of all such information in the possession of the agency.


(B) Relevant informationFor the purpose of subparagraph (A), relevant information includes information on—(i) ground and surface water hydrology;

(ii) natural and altered tributary dynamics;

(iii) biological aspects of the system influenced by and influencing water quantity and water movement;

(iv) meteorological projections and the impacts of weather conditions on Great Lakes water levels; and

(v) other Great Lakes biohydrological system data relevant to sustainable water use management.



(2) Report(A) In generalNot later than 18 months after August 17, 1999, the Secretary, in consultation with the States, Indian tribes, and Federal agencies, and after requesting information from the provinces and the federal government of Canada, shall—(i) compile the inventories of information;

(ii) analyze the information for consistency and gaps; and

(iii) submit to Congress, the International Joint Commission, and the Great Lakes States a report that includes recommendations on ways to improve the information base on the biohydrological dynamics of the Great Lakes ecosystem as a whole, so as to support environmentally sound decisions regarding diversions and consumptive uses of Great Lakes water.


(B) RecommendationsThe recommendations in the report under subparagraph (A) shall include recommendations relating to the resources and funds necessary for implementing improvement of the information base.


(C) ConsiderationsIn developing the report under subparagraph (A), the Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Transportation, and the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall consider and report on the status of the issues described and recommendations made in—(i) the Report of the International Joint Commission to the Governments of the United States and Canada under the 1977 reference issued in 1985; and

(ii) the 1993 Report of the International Joint Commission to the Governments of Canada and the United States on Methods of Alleviating Adverse Consequences of Fluctuating Water Levels in the Great Lakes St. Lawrence Basin.




(c) Great Lakes recreational boatingNot later than 18 months after August 17, 1999, the Secretary, using information and studies in existence on August 17, 1999, to the extent practicable, and in cooperation with the Great Lakes States, shall submit to Congress a report detailing the economic benefits of recreational boating in the Great Lakes basin, particularly at harbors benefiting from operation and maintenance projects of the Corps of Engineers.


(d) CooperationIn undertaking activities under this section, the Secretary shall—(1) encourage public participation; and

(2) cooperate, and, as appropriate, collaborate, with Great Lakes States, tribal governments, and Canadian federal, provincial, and tribal governments.


(e) Water use activities and policiesThe Secretary may provide technical assistance to the Great Lakes States to develop interstate guidelines to improve the consistency and efficiency of State-level water use activities and policies in the Great Lakes basin.


(f) Cost sharingThe Secretary may seek and accept funds from non-Federal entities to be used to pay up to 25 percent of the cost of carrying out subsections (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section.


(g) In-kind contributions for studyThe non-Federal interest may provide up to 100 percent of the non-Federal share required under subsection (f) in the form of in-kind services and materials.


(Pub. L. 106–53, title IV, § 455, Aug. 17, 1999, 113 Stat. 330; Pub. L. 110–114, title IV, § 4001, Nov. 8, 2007, 121 Stat. 1173.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, and not as part of the Water Resources Planning Act which comprises this chapter.

Amendments2007—Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 110–114 added subsec. (g).


Definitions
Secretary means the Secretary of the Army, see section 2 of Pub. L. 106–53, set out as a note under section 2201 of Title 33, Navigation and Navigable Waters.


