§ 3713b. Improved investigative and forensic resources for enforcement of laws related to intellectual property crimes(a) In generalSubject to the availability of appropriations to carry out this subsection, the Attorney General, in consultation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall, with respect to crimes related to the theft of intellectual property—(1) ensure that there are at least 10 additional operational agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation designated to support the Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section of the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice in the investigation and coordination of intellectual property crimes;

(2) ensure that any Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property Crime Unit in the Department of Justice is supported by at least 1 agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (in addition to any agent supporting such unit as of October 13, 2008) to support such unit for the purpose of investigating or prosecuting intellectual property crimes;

(3) ensure that all Computer Hacking and Intellectual Property Crime Units located at an office of a United States Attorney are assigned at least 2 Assistant United States Attorneys responsible for investigating and prosecuting computer hacking or intellectual property crimes; and

(4) ensure the implementation of a regular and comprehensive training program—(A) the purpose of which is to train agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the investigation and prosecution of such crimes and the enforcement of laws related to intellectual property crimes; and

(B) that includes relevant forensic training related to investigating and prosecuting intellectual property crimes.



(b) Organized crime planSubject to the availability of appropriations to carry out this subsection, and not later than 180 days after October 13, 2008, the Attorney General, through the United States Attorneys’ Offices, the Computer Crime and Intellectual Property section, and the Organized Crime and Racketeering section of the Department of Justice, and in consultation with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other Federal law enforcement agencies, such as the Department of Homeland Security, shall create and implement a comprehensive, long-range plan to investigate and prosecute international organized crime syndicates engaging in or supporting crimes relating to the theft of intellectual property.


(c) AuthorizationThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013.


(Pub. L. 110–403, title IV, § 402, Oct. 13, 2008, 122 Stat. 4272.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Prioritizing Resources and Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008, and not as part of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 which comprises this chapter.


