§ 12206. Technical assistance(a) Plan for assistance(1) In generalNot later than 180 days after July 26, 1990, the Attorney General, in consultation with the Chair of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Secretary of Transportation, the Chair of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, and the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, shall develop a plan to assist entities covered under this chapter, and other Federal agencies, in understanding the responsibility of such entities and agencies under this chapter.


(2) Publication of planThe Attorney General shall publish the plan referred to in paragraph (1) for public comment in accordance with subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5 (commonly known as the Administrative Procedure Act).



(b) Agency and public assistanceThe Attorney General may obtain the assistance of other Federal agencies in carrying out subsection (a) of this section, including the National Council on Disability, the President’s Committee on Employment of People with Disabilities, the Small Business Administration, and the Department of Commerce.


(c) Implementation(1) Rendering assistanceEach Federal agency that has responsibility under paragraph (2) for implementing this chapter may render technical assistance to individuals and institutions that have rights or duties under the respective subchapter or subchapters of this chapter for which such agency has responsibility.


(2) Implementation of subchapters(A) Subchapter IThe Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and the Attorney General shall implement the plan for assistance developed under subsection (a) of this section, for subchapter I.


(B) Subchapter II(i) Part AThe Attorney General shall implement such plan for assistance for part A of subchapter II.


(ii) Part BThe Secretary of Transportation shall implement such plan for assistance for part B of subchapter II.



(C) Subchapter IIIThe Attorney General, in coordination with the Secretary of Transportation and the Chair of the Architectural Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, shall implement such plan for assistance for subchapter III, except for section 12184 of this title, the plan for assistance for which shall be implemented by the Secretary of Transportation.


(D) Title IVThe Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, in coordination with the Attorney General, shall implement such plan for assistance for title IV.



(3) Technical assistance manualsEach Federal agency that has responsibility under paragraph (2) for implementing this chapter shall, as part of its implementation responsibilities, ensure the availability and provision of appropriate technical assistance manuals to individuals or entities with rights or duties under this chapter no later than six months after applicable final regulations are published under subchapters I, II, and III and title IV.



(d) Grants and contracts(1) In generalEach Federal agency that has responsibility under subsection (c)(2) of this section for implementing this chapter may make grants or award contracts to effectuate the purposes of this section, subject to the availability of appropriations. Such grants and contracts may be awarded to individuals, institutions not organized for profit and no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual (including educational institutions), and associations representing individuals who have rights or duties under this chapter. Contracts may be awarded to entities organized for profit, but such entities may not be the recipients or 11 So in original. Probably should be “of”. grants described in this paragraph.


(2) Dissemination of informationSuch grants and contracts, among other uses, may be designed to ensure wide dissemination of information about the rights and duties established by this chapter and to provide information and technical assistance about techniques for effective compliance with this chapter.



(e) Failure to receive assistanceAn employer, public accommodation, or other entity covered under this chapter shall not be excused from compliance with the requirements of this chapter because of any failure to receive technical assistance under this section, including any failure in the development or dissemination of any technical assistance manual authorized by this section.


(Pub. L. 101–336, title V, § 507, formerly § 506, July 26, 1990, 104 Stat. 371; renumbered § 507, Pub. L. 110–325, § 6(a)(2), Sept. 25, 2008, 122 Stat. 3558.)


References in TextThis chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1), (c)(1), (3), (d), and (e), was in the original “this Act”, meaning Pub. L. 101–336, July 26, 1990, 104 Stat. 327, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 12101 of this title and Tables.
Title IV, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(D), (3), means title IV of Pub. L. 101–336, July 26, 1990, 104 Stat. 366, which enacted section 225 of Title 47, Telecommunications, and amended sections 152, 221, and 611 of Title 47.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 507 of Pub. L. 101–336 was renumbered section 508 and is classified to section 12207 of this title.


