§ 6307. Furnishing of information, data, or reports by Federal agencies(a) In General.—Except as provided in subsection (b), a Federal agency requested to furnish information, data, or reports by the Director under section 6302(b)(3)(B) shall provide the information to the Director.

(b) Prohibition on Certain Disclosures.—(1) In general.—An officer, employee, or contractor of the Bureau may not—(A) make any disclosure in which the data provided by an individual or organization under section 6302(b)(3)(B) can be identified;

(B) use the information provided under section 6302(b)(3)(B) for a nonstatistical purpose; or

(C) permit anyone other than an individual authorized by the Director to examine any individual report provided under section 6302(b)(3)(B).


(2) Copies of reports.—(A) In general.—No department, bureau, agency, officer, or employee of the United States (except the Director in carrying out this chapter) may require, for any reason, a copy of any report that has been filed under section 6302(b)(3)(B) with the Bureau or retained by an individual respondent.

(B) Limitation on judicial proceedings.—A copy of a report described in subparagraph (A) that has been retained by an individual respondent or filed with the Bureau or any of the employees, contractors, or agents of the Bureau—(i) shall be immune from legal process; and

(ii) shall not, without the consent of the individual concerned, be admitted as evidence or used for any purpose in any action, suit, or other judicial or administrative proceedings.


(C) Applicability.—This paragraph shall apply only to reports that permit information concerning an individual or organization to be reasonably determined by direct or indirect means.


(3) Informing respondent of use of data.—If the Bureau is authorized by statute to collect data or information for a nonstatistical purpose, the Director shall clearly distinguish the collection of the data or information, by rule and on the collection instrument, in a manner that informs the respondent who is requested or required to supply the data or information of the nonstatistical purpose.


(c) Transportation and Transportation-related Data Access.—The Director shall be provided access to any transportation and transportation-related information in the possession of any Federal agency, except—(1) information that is expressly prohibited by law from being disclosed to another Federal agency; or

(2) information that the agency possessing the information determines could not be disclosed without significantly impairing the discharge of authorities and responsibilities which have been delegated to, or vested by law, in such agency.


(Added Pub. L. 112–141, div. E, title II, § 52011(a), July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 892.)

Effective DateSection effective Oct. 1, 2012, see section 3(a) of Pub. L. 112–141, set out as an Effective and Termination Dates of 2012 Amendment note under section 101 of Title 23, Highways.


