§ 30306. National Driver Register Advisory Committee(a) Organization.—There is a National Driver Register Advisory Committee.

(b) Duties.—The Committee shall advise the Secretary of Transportation on—(1) the efficiency of the maintenance and operation of the National Driver Register; and

(2) the effectiveness of the Register in assisting States in exchanging information about motor vehicle driving records.


(c) Composition and Appointment.—The Committee is composed of 15 members appointed by the Secretary as follows:(1) 3 members appointed from among individuals who are specially qualified to serve on the Committee because of their education, training, or experience, and who are not officers or employees of the United States Government or a State.

(2) 3 members appointed from among groups outside the Government that represent the interests of bus and trucking organizations, enforcement officials, labor, or safety organizations.

(3) 9 members, geographically representative of the participating States, appointed from among individuals who are chief driver licensing officials of participating States.


(d) Terms.—(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the term of each member is 3 years.

(2) A vacancy on the Committee shall be filled in the same way as an original appointment. A member appointed to fill a vacancy serves for the remainder of the term of that member’s predecessor. After a member’s term ends, the member may continue to serve until a successor takes office.


(e) Pay and Expenses.—Members of the Committee serve without pay. However, the Secretary may reimburse a member for reasonable travel expenses incurred by the member in attending meetings of the Committee.

(f) Meetings, Chairman, Vice Chairman, and Quorum.—(1) The Committee shall meet at least once a year.

(2) The Committee shall elect a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from among its members.

(3) Eight members are a quorum.

(4) The Committee shall meet at the call of the Chairman or a majority of the members.


(g) Personnel and Services.—The Secretary may provide the Committee with personnel, penalty mail privileges, and similar services the Secretary considers necessary to assist the Committee in carrying out its duties and powers under this section.

(h) Reports.—At least once a year, the Committee shall submit to the Secretary a report on the matters specified in subsection (b) of this section. The report shall include any recommendations of the Committee for changes in the Register.

(i) Relationship to Other Laws.—The Committee is exempt from sections 10(e) and (f) and 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 App. U.S.C.).

(Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(e), July 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 978.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


3030623:401 (note).Oct. 25, 1982, Pub. L. 97–364, § 209, 96 Stat. 1746.


In subsection (a), the word “hereby” is omitted as surplus.
In subsection (c), the text of section 209(c)(2) of the National Driver Register Act of 1982 (Public Law 97–364, 96 Stat. 1746) is omitted as executed.
In subsection (g), the words “The Secretary may provide the Committee” are substituted for “The Advisory Committee may receive from the Secretary” for clarity.
In subsection (h), the cross-reference is used to avoid repeating the same language twice in this section.


References in TextSections 10 and 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (i), are sections 10 and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, which are set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


