§ 290bb–38. Grants for jail diversion programs(a) Program authorizedThe Secretary shall make up to 125 grants to States, political subdivisions of States, Indian tribes, and tribal organizations, acting directly or through agreements with other public or nonprofit entities, to develop and implement programs to divert individuals with a mental illness from the criminal justice system to community-based services.


(b) Administration(1) ConsultationThe Secretary shall consult with the Attorney General and any other appropriate officials in carrying out this section.


(2) Regulatory authorityThe Secretary shall issue regulations and guidelines necessary to carry out this section, including methodologies and outcome measures for evaluating programs carried out by States, political subdivisions of States, Indian tribes, and tribal organizations receiving grants under subsection (a) of this section.



(c) Applications(1) In generalTo receive a grant under subsection (a) of this section, the chief executive of a State, chief executive of a subdivision of a State, Indian tribe or tribal organization shall prepare and submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary shall reasonably require.


(2) ContentSuch application shall—(A) contain an assurance that—(i) community-based mental health services will be available for the individuals who are diverted from the criminal justice system, and that such services are based on the best known practices, reflect current research findings, include case management, assertive community treatment, medication management and access, integrated mental health and co-occurring substance abuse treatment, and psychiatric rehabilitation, and will be coordinated with social services, including life skills training, housing placement, vocational training, education job placement, and health care;

(ii) there has been relevant interagency collaboration between the appropriate criminal justice, mental health, and substance abuse systems; and

(iii) the Federal support provided will be used to supplement, and not supplant, State, local, Indian tribe, or tribal organization sources of funding that would otherwise be available;


(B) demonstrate that the diversion program will be integrated with an existing system of care for those with mental illness;

(C) explain the applicant’s inability to fund the program adequately without Federal assistance;

(D) specify plans for obtaining necessary support and continuing the proposed program following the conclusion of Federal support; and

(E) describe methodology and outcome measures that will be used in evaluating the program.



(d) Use of fundsA State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, or tribal organization that receives a grant under subsection (a) of this section may use funds received under such grant to—(1) integrate the diversion program into the existing system of care;

(2) create or expand community-based mental health and co-occurring mental illness and substance abuse services to accommodate the diversion program;

(3) train professionals involved in the system of care, and law enforcement officers, attorneys, and judges; and

(4) provide community outreach and crisis intervention.


(e) Federal share(1) In generalThe Secretary shall pay to a State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, or tribal organization receiving a grant under subsection (a) of this section the Federal share of the cost of activities described in the application.


(2) Federal shareThe Federal share of a grant made under this section shall not exceed 75 percent of the total cost of the program carried out by the State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, or tribal organization. Such share shall be used for new expenses of the program carried out by such State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, or tribal organization.


(3) Non-Federal shareThe non-Federal share of payments made under this section may be made in cash or in kind fairly evaluated, including planned equipment or services. The Secretary may waive the requirement of matching contributions.



(f) Geographic distributionThe Secretary shall ensure that such grants awarded under subsection (a) of this section are equitably distributed among the geographical regions of the United States and between urban and rural populations.


(g) Training and technical assistanceTraining and technical assistance may be provided by the Secretary to assist a State, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, or tribal organization receiving a grant under subsection (a) of this section in establishing and operating a diversion program.


(h) EvaluationsThe programs described in subsection (a) of this section shall be evaluated not less than one time in every 12-month period using the methodology and outcome measures identified in the grant application.


(i) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2002 through 2003.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 520G, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXII, § 3210, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1201.)
