“Section 221“(a) Services.—The Government of the United States shall make available to the Federated States of Micronesia, in accordance with and to the extent provided in the Federal Programs and Services Agreement referred to in section 231, the services and related programs of:“(1) the United States Weather Service;

“(2) the United States Postal Service;

“(3) the United States Federal Aviation Administration;

“(4) the United States Department of Transportation;

“(5) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (for the benefit only of the Bank of the Federated States of Micronesia); and

“(6) the Department of Homeland Security (Federal Emergency Management Agency), and the United States Agency for International Development, Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance.


Upon the effective date of this Compact, as amended, the United States Departments and Agencies named or having responsibility to provide these services and related programs shall have the authority to implement the relevant provisions of the Federal Programs and Services Agreement referred to in section 231.

“(b) Programs.—“(1) With the exception of the services and programs covered by subsection (a) of this section, and unless the Congress of the United States provides otherwise, the Government of the United States shall make available to the Federated States of Micronesia the services and programs that were available to the Federated States of Micronesia on the effective date of this Compact, as amended, to the extent that such services and programs continue to be available to State and local governments of the United States. As set forth in the Fiscal Procedures Agreement, funds provided under subsection (a) of section 211 will be considered to be local revenues of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia when used as the local share required to obtain Federal programs and services.

“(2) Unless provided otherwise by U.S. law, the services and programs described in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be extended in accordance with the terms of the Federal Programs and Services Agreement referred to in section 231.


“(c) The Government of the United States shall have and exercise such authority as is necessary to carry out its responsibilities under this Title and the separate agreement referred to in amended section 231, including the authority to monitor and administer all service and program assistance provided by the United States to the Federated States of Micronesia. The Federal Programs and Services Agreement referred to in amended section 231 shall also set forth the extent to which services and programs shall be provided to the Federated States of Micronesia.

“(d) Except as provided elsewhere in this Compact, as amended, under any separate agreement entered into under this Compact, as amended, or otherwise under U.S. law, all Federal domestic programs extended to or operating in the Federated States of Micronesia shall be subject to all applicable criteria, standards, reporting requirements, auditing procedures, and other rules and regulations applicable to such programs and services when operating in the United States.

“(e) The Government of the United States shall make available to the Federated States of Micronesia alternate energy development projects, studies, and conservation measures to the extent provided for the Freely Associated States in the laws of the United States. [As amended Pub. L. 110–229, title VIII, § 806(b)(1)(F), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 872.]

