§ 1397k. Elder Justice Coordinating Council(a) EstablishmentThere is established within the Office of the Secretary an Elder Justice Coordinating Council (in this section referred to as the “Council”).


(b) Membership(1) In generalThe Council shall be composed of the following members:(A) The Secretary (or the Secretary’s designee).

(B) The Attorney General (or the Attorney General’s designee).

(C) The head of each Federal department or agency or other governmental entity identified by the Chair referred to in subsection (d) as having responsibilities, or administering programs, relating to elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation.


(2) RequirementEach member of the Council shall be an officer or employee of the Federal Government.



(c) VacanciesAny vacancy in the Council shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.


(d) ChairThe member described in subsection (b)(1)(A) shall be Chair of the Council.


(e) MeetingsThe Council shall meet at least 2 times per year, as determined by the Chair.


(f) Duties(1) In generalThe Council shall make recommendations to the Secretary for the coordination of activities of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, and other relevant Federal, State, local, and private agencies and entities, relating to elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation and other crimes against elders.


(2) ReportNot later than the date that is 2 years after March 23, 2010, and every 2 years thereafter, the Council shall submit to the Committee on Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that—(A) describes the activities and accomplishments of, and challenges faced by—(i) the Council; and

(ii) the entities represented on the Council; and


(B) makes such recommendations for legislation, model laws, or other action as the Council determines to be appropriate.



(g) Powers of the Council(1) Information from Federal agenciesSubject to the requirements of section 1397j–1(a) of this title, the Council may secure directly from any Federal department or agency such information as the Council considers necessary to carry out this section. Upon request of the Chair of the Council, the head of such department or agency shall furnish such information to the Council.


(2) Postal servicesThe Council may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the Federal Government.



(h) Travel expensesThe members of the Council shall not receive compensation for the performance of services for the Council. The members shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Council. Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, the Secretary may accept the voluntary and uncompensated services of the members of the Council.


(i) Detail of Government employeesAny Federal Government employee may be detailed to the Council without reimbursement, and such detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.


(j) Status as permanent CouncilSection 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Council.


(k) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.


(Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title XX, § 2021, as added Pub. L. 111–148, title VI, § 6703(a)(1)(C), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 786.)


References in TextSection 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (j), is section 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


