§ 18342. Requirements applicable to development of commercial crew transportation capabilities and services(a) FY 2011 contracts and procurement agreements(1) In generalExcept as provided in paragraph (2), the Administrator may not execute a contract or procurement agreement with respect to follow-on commercial crew services during fiscal year 2011.


(2) ExceptionNotwithstanding paragraph (1), the Administrator may execute a contract or procurement agreement with respect to follow-on commercial crew services during fiscal year 2011 if—(A) the requirements of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b) are met; and

(B) the total amount involved for all such contracts and procurement agreements executed during fiscal year 2011 does not exceed $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2011.



(b) SupportThe Administrator may, beginning in fiscal year 2012 through the duration of the program, support follow-on commercially-developed crew transportation systems dependent upon the completion of each of the following:(1) Human rating requirementsNot later than 60 days after October 11, 2010, the Administrator shall develop and make available to the public detailed human rating processes and requirements to guide the design of commercially-developed crew transportation capabilities, which requirements shall be at least equivalent to proven requirements for crew transportation in use as of October 11, 2010.


(2) Commercial market assessmentNot later than 180 days after October 11, 2010, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress an assessment, conducted, in coordination with the Federal Aviation Administration’s Office of Commercial Space Transportation, for purposes of this paragraph, of the potential non-Government market for commercially-developed crew and cargo transportation systems and capabilities, including an assessment of the activities associated with potential private sector utilization of the ISS research and technology development capabilities and other potential activities in low-Earth orbit.


(3) Procurement system reviewThe Administrator shall review current Government procurement and acquisition practices and processes, including agreement authorities under the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958,11 See References in Text note below. to determine the most cost-effective means of procuring commercial crew transportation capabilities and related services in a manner that ensures appropriate accountability, transparency, and maximum efficiency in the procurement of such capabilities and services, which review shall include an identification of proposed measures to address risk management and means of indemnification of commercial providers of such capabilities and services, and measures for quality control, safety oversight, and the application of Federal oversight processes within the jurisdiction of other Federal agencies. A description of the proposed procurement process and justification of the proposed procurement for its selection shall be included in any proposed initiation of procurement activity for commercially-developed crew transportation capabilities and services and shall be subject to review by the appropriate committees of Congress before the initiation of any competitive process to procure such capabilities or services. In support of the review by such committees, the Comptroller General shall undertake an assessment of the proposed procurement process and provide a report to the appropriate committees of Congress within 90 days after the date on which the Administrator provides the description and justification to such committees.


(4) Use of government-supplied capabilities and infrastructureIn evaluating any proposed development activity for commercially-developed crew or cargo launch capabilities, the Administrator shall identify the anticipated contribution of government personnel, expertise, technologies, and infrastructure to be utilized in support of design, development, or operations of such capabilities. This assessment shall include a clear delineation of the full requirements for the commercial crew service (including the contingency for crew rescue). The Administrator shall include details and associated costs of such support as part of any proposed development initiative for the procurement of commercially-developed crew or cargo launch capabilities or services.


(5) Flight demonstration and readiness requirementsThe Administrator shall establish appropriate milestones and minimum performance objectives to be achieved before authority is granted to proceed to the procurement of commercially-developed crew transportation capabilities or systems. The guidelines shall include a procedure to provide independent assurance of flight safety and flight readiness before the authorization of United States government personnel to participate as crew onboard any commercial launch vehicle developed pursuant to this section.


(6) Commercial crew rescue capabilitiesThe provision of a commercial capability to provide ISS crew services shall include crew rescue requirements, and shall be undertaken through the procurement process initiated in conformance with this section. In the event such development is initiated, the Administrator shall make available any relevant government-owned intellectual property deriving from the development of a multi-purpose crew vehicle authorized by this chapter to commercial entities involved with such crew rescue capability development which shall be relevant to the design of a crew rescue capability. In addition, the Administrator shall seek to ensure that contracts for development of the multi-purpose crew vehicle contain provisions for the licensing of relevant intellectual property to participating commercial providers of any crew rescue capability development undertaken pursuant to this section. If one or more contractors involved with development of the multi-purpose crew vehicle seek to compete in development of a commercial crew service with crew rescue capability, separate legislative authority must be enacted to enable the Administrator to provide funding for any modifications of the multi-purpose crew vehicle necessary to fulfill the ISS crew rescue function.



(Pub. L. 111–267, title IV, § 403, Oct. 11, 2010, 124 Stat. 2820.)


References in TextThe National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is Pub. L. 85–568, July 29, 1958, 72 Stat. 426, which was classified principally to chapter 26 (§ 2451 et seq.) of this title and was substantially repealed and restated as chapter 201 (§ 20101 et seq.) of Title 51, National and Commercial Space Programs, by Pub. L. 111–314, §§ 3, 6, Dec. 18, 2010, 124 Stat. 3328, 3444. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1958 Act note set out under section 10101 of Title 51 and Tables.


