§ 7588. Federal agency fleets(a) Additional provisions applicableThe provisions of this section shall apply, in addition to the other provisions of this part, in the case of covered fleet vehicles owned or operated by an agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States, except as otherwise provided in subsection (e) of this section.


(b) Cost of vehicles to Federal agencyNotwithstanding the provisions of sections 601–611 of title 40, the Administrator of General Services shall not include the incremental costs of clean-fuel vehicles in the amount to be reimbursed by Federal agencies if the Administrator of General Services determines that appropriations provided pursuant to this paragraph are sufficient to provide for the incremental cost of such vehicles over the cost of comparable conventional vehicles.


(c) Limitations on appropriationsFunds appropriated pursuant to the authorization under this paragraph shall be applicable only—(1) to the portion of the cost of acquisition, maintenance and operation of vehicles acquired under this subparagraph which exceeds the cost of acquisition, maintenance and operation of comparable conventional vehicles;

(2) to the portion of the costs of fuel storage and dispensing equipment attributable to such vehicles which exceeds the costs for such purposes required for conventional vehicles; and

(3) to the portion of the costs of acquisition of clean-fuel vehicles which represents a reduction in revenue from the disposal of such vehicles as compared to revenue resulting from the disposal of comparable conventional vehicles.


(d) Vehicle costsThe incremental cost of vehicles acquired under this part over the cost of comparable conventional vehicles shall not be applied to any calculation with respect to a limitation under law on the maximum cost of individual vehicles which may be required by the United States.


(e) ExemptionsThe requirements of this part shall not apply to vehicles with respect to which the Secretary of Defense has certified to the Administrator that an exemption is needed based on national security consideration.


(f) Acquisition requirementFederal agencies, to the extent practicable, shall obtain clean-fuel vehicles from original equipment manufacturers.


(g) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be required to carry out the provisions of this section: Provided, That such sums as are appropriated for the Administrator of General Services pursuant to the authorization under this section shall be added to the General Supply Fund established in section 321 of title 40.


(July 14, 1955, ch. 360, title II, § 248, as added Pub. L. 101–549, title II, § 229(a), Nov. 15, 1990, 104 Stat. 2524.)

Codification
In subsec. (b), “sections 601–611 of title 40” substituted for “section 211 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949”, and, in subsec. (g), “the General Supply Fund established in section 321 of title 40” substituted for “the General Supply Fund established in section 109 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949”, on authority of Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c), Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1303, the first section of which enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works.


Abolition of General Supply Fund
The General Supply Fund, referred to in subsec. (g), was abolished and its capital assets and balances transferred to the Acquisition Services Fund by section 3(a)–(c) of Pub. L. 109–313, set out as an Acquisition Services Fund note under section 321 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works.


