§ 15891. Projects enhancing insular energy independence(a) Project feasibility studies(1) In generalOn a request described in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall conduct a feasibility study of a project to implement a strategy or project identified in the plans submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1492 of title 48 as having the potential to—(A) significantly reduce the dependence of an insular area on imported fossil fuels; or

(B) provide needed distributed generation to an insular area.


(2) RequestThe Secretary shall conduct a feasibility study under paragraph (1) on—(A) the request of an electric utility located in an insular area that commits to fund at least 10 percent of the cost of the study; and

(B) if the electric utility is located in the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau, written support for that request by the President or the Ambassador of the affected freely associated state.


(3) ConsultationThe Secretary shall consult with regional utility organizations in—(A) conducting feasibility studies under paragraph (1); and

(B) determining the feasibility of potential projects.


(4) FeasibilityFor the purpose of a feasibility study under paragraph (1), a project shall be determined to be feasible if the project would significantly reduce the dependence of an insular area on imported fossil fuels, or provide needed distributed generation to an insular area, at a reasonable cost.



(b) Implementation(1) In generalOn a determination by the Secretary (in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior) that a project is feasible under subsection (a) and a commitment by an electric utility to operate and maintain the project, the Secretary may provide such technical and financial assistance as the Secretary determines is appropriate for the implementation of the project.


(2) Regional utility organizationsIn providing assistance under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider providing the assistance through regional utility organizations.



(c) Authorization of appropriations(1) In generalThere are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary—(A) $500,000 for each fiscal year for project feasibility studies under subsection (a); and

(B) $4,000,000 for each fiscal year for project implementation under subsection (b).


(2) Limitation of funds received by insular areasNo insular area may receive, during any 3-year period, more than 20 percent of the total funds made available during that 3-year period under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) unless the Secretary determines that providing funding in excess of that percentage best advances existing opportunities to meet the objectives of this section.



(Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 252, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 682.)
