“SEC. 3542. APPLICATION PROCEDURE.“(a) Request for Proposals.—Within 90 days after the date of the enactment of this subtitle [Nov. 24, 2003], and on an as-needed basis thereafter, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall publish in the Federal Register a request for competitive proposals for the construction of new product tank vessels necessary to meet the commercial and national security needs of the United States and to be built with assistance under this subtitle.

“(b) Qualification.—Any citizen of the United States or any shipyard in the United States may submit a proposal to the Secretary of Transportation for purposes of constructing a product tank vessel with assistance under this subtitle.

“(c) Requirement.—The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Defense, may enter into an agreement with the submitter of a proposal for assistance under this subtitle if the Secretary determines that—“(1) the plans and specifications call for construction of a new product tank vessel of not less than 35,000 deadweight tons and not greater than 60,000 deadweight tons, that—“(A) will meet the requirements of foreign commerce;

“(B) is capable of carrying militarily useful petroleum products, and will be suitable for national defense or military purposes in time of war, national emergency, or other military contingency; and

“(C) will meet the construction standards necessary to be documented under the laws of the United States;


“(2) the shipyard in which the vessel will be constructed has the necessary capacity and expertise to successfully construct the proposed number and type of product tank vessels in a reasonable period of time as determined by the Secretary of Transportation, taking into consideration the recent prior commercial shipbuilding history of the proposed shipyard in delivering a vessel or series of vessels on time and in accordance with the contract price and specifications; and

“(3) the person proposed to be the operator of the proposed vessel possesses the ability, experience, financial resources, and any other qualifications determined to be necessary by the Secretary for the operation and maintenance of the vessel.


“(d) Priority.—The Secretary—“(1) subject to paragraph (2), shall give priority consideration to a proposal submitted by a person that is a citizen of the United States under section 2 of the Shipping Act, 1916 ([former] 46 U.S.C. App. 802) [see 46 U.S.C. 50501]; and

“(2) may give priority to consideration of proposals that provide the best value to the Government, taking into consideration—“(A) the costs of vessel construction;

“(B) the commercial and national security needs of the United States; and

“(C) with respect to any proposal for financial assistance to be provided from amounts appropriated for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2005, acceptance of the vessel to be constructed with the assistance for participation in the Shipboard Technology Evaluation Program as outlined in Navigation and Vessel Inspection Circular 01–04, issued by the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard on January 2, 2004.



