§ 32304A. Consumer tire information(a) Rulemaking.—(1) In general.—Not later than 24 months after the date of enactment of the Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall, after notice and opportunity for comment, promulgate rules establishing a national tire fuel efficiency consumer information program for replacement tires designed for use on motor vehicles to educate consumers about the effect of tires on automobile fuel efficiency, safety, and durability.

(2) Items included in rule.—The rulemaking shall include—(A) a national tire fuel efficiency rating system for motor vehicle replacement tires to assist consumers in making more educated tire purchasing decisions;

(B) requirements for providing information to consumers, including information at the point of sale and other potential information dissemination methods, including the Internet;

(C) specifications for test methods for manufacturers to use in assessing and rating tires to avoid variation among test equipment and manufacturers; and

(D) a national tire maintenance consumer education program including,11 So in original. Probably should be “, including”. information on tire inflation pressure, alignment, rotation, and tread wear to maximize fuel efficiency, safety, and durability of replacement tires.


(3) Applicability.—This section shall apply only to replacement tires covered under section 575.104(c) of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, in effect on the date of the enactment of the Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy Act.


(b) Consultation.—The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency on the means of conveying tire fuel efficiency consumer information.

(c) Report to Congress.—The Secretary shall conduct periodic assessments of the rules promulgated under this section to determine the utility of such rules to consumers, the level of cooperation by industry, and the contribution to national goals pertaining to energy consumption. The Secretary shall transmit periodic reports detailing the findings of such assessments to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce.

(d) Tire Marking.—The Secretary shall not require permanent labeling of any kind on a tire for the purpose of tire fuel efficiency information.

(e) Application With State and Local Laws and Regulations.—Nothing in this section prohibits a State or political subdivision thereof from enforcing a law or regulation on tire fuel efficiency consumer information that was in effect on January 1, 2006. After a requirement promulgated under this section is in effect, a State or political subdivision thereof may adopt or enforce a law or regulation on tire fuel efficiency consumer information enacted or promulgated after January 1, 2006, if the requirements of that law or regulation are identical to the requirement promulgated under this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed to preempt a State or political subdivision thereof from regulating the fuel efficiency of tires (including establishing testing methods for determining compliance with such standards) not otherwise preempted under this chapter.

(Added Pub. L. 110–140, title I, § 111(a), Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1506.)


References in TextThe date of enactment of the Ten-in-Ten Fuel Economy Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), (3), is the date of enactment of subtitle A (§§ 101–113) of title I of Pub. L. 110–140, which was approved Dec. 19, 2007.

Effective DateSection effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140, set out as a note under section 1824 of Title 2, The Congress.


