“SEC. 209. FAA RULEMAKING ON TRAINING PROGRAMS.“(a) Completion of Rulemaking on Training Programs.—Not later than 14 months after the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 1, 2010], the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall issue a final rule with respect to the notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal Register on January 12, 2009 (74 Fed. Reg. 1280; relating to training programs for flight crewmembers and aircraft dispatchers).

“(b) Expert Panel To Review Part 121 and Part 135 Training Hours.—“(1) Establishment.—Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall convene a multidisciplinary expert panel comprised of, at a minimum, air carrier representatives, training facility representatives, instructional design experts, aircraft manufacturers, safety organization representatives, and labor union representatives.

“(2) Assessment and recommendations.—The panel shall assess and make recommendations concerning—“(A) the best methods and optimal time needed for flight crewmembers of part 121 air carriers and flight crewmembers of part 135 air carriers to master aircraft systems, maneuvers, procedures, takeoffs and landings, and crew coordination;

“(B) initial and recurrent testing requirements for pilots, including the rigor and consistency of testing programs such as check rides;

“(C) the optimal length of time between training events for such flight crewmembers, including recurrent training events;

“(D) the best methods reliably to evaluate mastery by such flight crewmembers of aircraft systems, maneuvers, procedures, takeoffs and landings, and crew coordination;

“(E) classroom instruction requirements governing curriculum content and hours of instruction;

“(F) the best methods to allow specific academic training courses to be credited toward the total flight hours required to receive an airline transport pilot certificate; and

“(G) crew leadership training.


“(3) Best practices.—In making recommendations under subsection (b)(2), the panel shall consider, if appropriate, best practices in the aviation industry with respect to training protocols, methods, and procedures.

“(4) Report.—Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the National Transportation Safety Board a report based on the findings of the panel.


