§ 15606. National Prison Rape Elimination Commission(a) EstablishmentThere is established a commission to be known as the National Prison Rape Elimination Commission (in this section referred to as the “Commission”).


(b) Members(1) In generalThe Commission shall be composed of 9 members, of whom—(A) 3 shall be appointed by the President;

(B) 2 shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, unless the Speaker is of the same party as the President, in which case 1 shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and 1 shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives;

(C) 1 shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives (in addition to any appointment made under subparagraph (B));

(D) 2 shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate, unless the majority leader is of the same party as the President, in which case 1 shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate and 1 shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate; and

(E) 1 member appointed by the minority leader of the Senate (in addition to any appointment made under subparagraph (D)).


(2) Persons eligibleEach member of the Commission shall be an individual who has knowledge or expertise in matters to be studied by the Commission.


(3) Consultation requiredThe President, the Speaker and minority leader of the House of Representatives, and the majority leader and minority leader of the Senate shall consult with one another prior to the appointment of the members of the Commission to achieve, to the maximum extent possible, fair and equitable representation of various points of view with respect to the matters to be studied by the Commission.


(4) TermEach member shall be appointed for the life of the Commission.


(5) Time for initial appointmentsThe appointment of the members shall be made not later than 60 days after September 4, 2003.


(6) VacanciesA vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made, and shall be made not later than 60 days after the date on which the vacancy occurred.



(c) Operation(1) ChairpersonNot later than 15 days after appointments of all the members are made, the President shall appoint a chairperson for the Commission from among its members.


(2) MeetingsThe Commission shall meet at the call of the chairperson. The initial meeting of the Commission shall take place not later than 30 days after the initial appointment of the members is completed.


(3) QuorumA majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum to conduct business, but the Commission may establish a lesser quorum for conducting hearings scheduled by the Commission.


(4) RulesThe Commission may establish by majority vote any other rules for the conduct of Commission business, if such rules are not inconsistent with this chapter or other applicable law.



(d) Comprehensive study of the impacts of prison rape(1) In generalThe Commission shall carry out a comprehensive legal and factual study of the penalogical, physical, mental, medical, social, and economic impacts of prison rape in the United States on—(A) Federal, State, and local governments; and

(B) communities and social institutions generally, including individuals, families, and businesses within such communities and social institutions.


(2) Matters includedThe study under paragraph (1) shall include—(A) a review of existing Federal, State, and local government policies and practices with respect to the prevention, detection, and punishment of prison rape;

(B) an assessment of the relationship between prison rape and prison conditions, and of existing monitoring, regulatory, and enforcement practices that are intended to address any such relationship;

(C) an assessment of pathological or social causes of prison rape;

(D) an assessment of the extent to which the incidence of prison rape contributes to the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and to the transmission of HIV;

(E) an assessment of the characteristics of inmates most likely to commit prison rape and the effectiveness of various types of treatment or programs to reduce such likelihood;

(F) an assessment of the characteristics of inmates most likely to be victims of prison rape and the effectiveness of various types of treatment or programs to reduce such likelihood;

(G) an assessment of the impacts of prison rape on individuals, families, social institutions and the economy generally, including an assessment of the extent to which the incidence of prison rape contributes to recidivism and to increased incidence of sexual assault;

(H) an examination of the feasibility and cost of conducting surveillance, undercover activities, or both, to reduce the incidence of prison rape;

(I) an assessment of the safety and security of prison facilities and the relationship of prison facility construction and design to the incidence of prison rape;

(J) an assessment of the feasibility and cost of any particular proposals for prison reform;

(K) an identification of the need for additional scientific and social science research on the prevalence of prison rape in Federal, State, and local prisons;

(L) an assessment of the general relationship between prison rape and prison violence;

(M) an assessment of the relationship between prison rape and levels of training, supervision, and discipline of prison staff; and

(N) an assessment of existing Federal and State systems for reporting incidents of prison rape, including an assessment of whether existing systems provide an adequate assurance of confidentiality, impartiality and the absence of reprisal.


(3) Report(A) DistributionNot later than 5 years after the date of the initial meeting of the Commission, the Commission shall submit a report on the study carried out under this subsection to—(i) the President;

(ii) the Congress;

(iii) the Attorney General;

(iv) the Secretary of Health and Human Services;

(v) the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons;

(vi) the chief executive of each State; and

(vii) the head of the department of corrections of each State.


(B) ContentsThe report under subparagraph (A) shall include—(i) the findings and conclusions of the Commission;

(ii) recommended national standards for reducing prison rape;

(iii) recommended protocols for preserving evidence and treating victims of prison rape; and

(iv) a summary of the materials relied on by the Commission in the preparation of the report.




(e) Recommendations(1) In generalIn conjunction with the report submitted under subsection (d)(3), the Commission shall provide the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services with recommended national standards for enhancing the detection, prevention, reduction, and punishment of prison rape.


(2) Matters includedThe information provided under paragraph (1) shall include recommended national standards relating to—(A) the classification and assignment of prisoners, using proven standardized instruments and protocols, in a manner that limits the occurrence of prison rape;

(B) the investigation and resolution of rape complaints by responsible prison authorities, local and State police, and Federal and State prosecution authorities;

(C) the preservation of physical and testimonial evidence for use in an investigation of the circumstances relating to the rape;

(D) acute-term trauma care for rape victims, including standards relating to—(i) the manner and extent of physical examination and treatment to be provided to any rape victim; and

(ii) the manner and extent of any psychological examination, psychiatric care, medication, and mental health counseling to be provided to any rape victim;


(E) referrals for long-term continuity of care for rape victims;

(F) educational and medical testing measures for reducing the incidence of HIV transmission due to prison rape;

(G) post-rape prophylactic medical measures for reducing the incidence of transmission of sexual diseases;

(H) the training of correctional staff sufficient to ensure that they understand and appreciate the significance of prison rape and the necessity of its eradication;

(I) the timely and comprehensive investigation of staff sexual misconduct involving rape or other sexual assault on inmates;

(J) ensuring the confidentiality of prison rape complaints and protecting inmates who make complaints of prison rape;

(K) creating a system for reporting incidents of prison rape that will ensure the confidentiality of prison rape complaints, protect inmates who make prison rape complaints from retaliation, and assure the impartial resolution of prison rape complaints;

(L) data collection and reporting of—(i) prison rape;

(ii) prison staff sexual misconduct; and

(iii) the resolution of prison rape complaints by prison officials and Federal, State, and local investigation and prosecution authorities; and


(M) such other matters as may reasonably be related to the detection, prevention, reduction, and punishment of prison rape.


(3) LimitationThe Commission shall not propose a recommended standard that would impose substantial additional costs compared to the costs presently expended by Federal, State, and local prison authorities.



(f) Consultation with accreditation organizationsIn developing recommended national standards for enhancing the detection, prevention, reduction, and punishment of prison rape, the Commission shall consider any standards that have already been developed, or are being developed simultaneously to the deliberations of the Commission. The Commission shall consult with accreditation organizations responsible for the accreditation of Federal, State, local or private prisons, that have developed or are currently developing standards related to prison rape. The Commission will also consult with national associations representing the corrections profession that have developed or are currently developing standards related to prison rape.


(g) Hearings(1) In generalThe Commission shall hold public hearings. The Commission may hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the Commission considers advisable to carry out its duties under this section.


(2) Witness expensesWitnesses requested to appear before the Commission shall be paid the same fees as are paid to witnesses under section 1821 of title 28. The per diem and mileage allowances for witnesses shall be paid from funds appropriated to the Commission.



(h) Information from Federal or State agenciesThe Commission may secure directly from any Federal department or agency such information as the Commission considers necessary to carry out its duties under this section. The Commission may request the head of any State or local department or agency to furnish such information to the Commission.


(i) Personnel matters(1) Travel expensesThe members of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5 while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of service for the Commission.


(2) Detail of Federal employeesWith the affirmative vote of ⅔ of the Commission, any Federal Government employee, with the approval of the head of the appropriate Federal agency, may be detailed to the Commission without reimbursement, and such detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status, benefits, or privileges.


(3) Procurement of temporary and intermittent servicesUpon the request of the Commission, the Attorney General shall provide reasonable and appropriate office space, supplies, and administrative assistance.



(j) Contracts for research(1) National Institute of JusticeWith a ⅔ affirmative vote, the Commission may select nongovernmental researchers and experts to assist the Commission in carrying out its duties under this chapter. The National Institute of Justice shall contract with the researchers and experts selected by the Commission to provide funding in exchange for their services.


(2) Other organizationsNothing in this subsection shall be construed to limit the ability of the Commission to enter into contracts with other entities or organizations for research necessary to carry out the duties of the Commission under this section.



(k) Subpoenas(1) IssuanceThe Commission may issue subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses and the production of written or other matter.


(2) EnforcementIn the case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Attorney General may in a Federal court of appropriate jurisdiction obtain an appropriate order to enforce the subpoena.


(3) Confidentiality of documentary evidenceDocuments provided to the Commission pursuant to a subpoena issued under this subsection shall not be released publicly without the affirmative vote of ⅔ of the Commission.



(l) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.


(m) TerminationThe Commission shall terminate on the date that is 60 days after the date on which the Commission submits the reports required by this section.


(n) ExemptionThe Commission shall be exempt from the Federal Advisory Committee Act.


(Pub. L. 108–79, § 7, Sept. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 980; Pub. L. 108–447, div. B, title I, § 123(1), Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 2871; Pub. L. 109–108, title I, § 113(b), Nov. 22, 2005, 119 Stat. 2305; Pub. L. 109–162, title XI, § 1181, Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 3126; Pub. L. 110–199, title II, § 261, Apr. 9, 2008, 122 Stat. 694.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (n), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Amendments2008—Subsec. (d)(3)(A). Pub. L. 110–199 substituted “5 years” for “3 years” in introductory provisions.
2006—Subsec. (d)(3)(A). Pub. L. 109–162 made amendment identical to that made by Pub. L. 109–108. See 2005 Amendment note below.
2005—Subsec. (d)(3)(A). Pub. L. 109–108 substituted “3 years” for “2 years”.
2004—Pub. L. 108–447 substituted “Elimination” for “Reduction” in section catchline and in text of subsec. (a).

Construction of 2008 AmendmentFor construction of amendments by Pub. L. 110–199 and requirements for grants made under such amendments, see section 17504 of this title.


