§ 16292. Coal and related technologies program(a) In generalIn addition to the programs authorized under subchapter IV, the Secretary shall conduct a program of technology research, development, demonstration, and commercial application for coal and power systems, including programs to facilitate production and generation of coal-based power through—(1) innovations for existing plants (including mercury removal);

(2) gasification systems;

(3) advanced combustion systems;

(4) turbines for synthesis gas derived from coal;

(5) carbon capture and sequestration research and development;

(6) coal-derived chemicals and transportation fuels;

(7) liquid fuels derived from low rank coal water slurry;

(8) solid fuels and feedstocks;

(9) advanced coal-related research;

(10) advanced separation technologies; and

(11) fuel cells for the operation of synthesis gas derived from coal.


(b) Cost and performance goals(1) In generalIn carrying out programs authorized by this section, during each of calendar years 2008, 2010, 2012, and 2016, and during each fiscal year beginning after September 30, 2021, the Secretary shall identify cost and performance goals for coal-based technologies that would permit the continued cost-competitive use of coal for the production of electricity, chemical feedstocks, and transportation fuels.


(2) AdministrationIn establishing the cost and performance goals, the Secretary shall—(A) consider activities and studies undertaken as of August 8, 2005, by industry in cooperation with the Department in support of the identification of the goals;

(B) consult with interested entities, including—(i) coal producers;

(ii) industries using coal;

(iii) organizations that promote coal and advanced coal technologies;

(iv) environmental organizations;

(v) organizations representing workers; and

(vi) organizations representing consumers;


(C) not later than 120 days after August 8, 2005, publish in the Federal Register proposed draft cost and performance goals for public comments; and

(D) not later than 180 days after August 8, 2005, and every 4 years thereafter, submit to Congress a report describing the final cost and performance goals for the technologies that includes—(i) a list of technical milestones; and

(ii) an explanation of how programs authorized in this section will not duplicate the activities authorized under the Clean Coal Power Initiative authorized under subchapter IV.




(c) Powder River Basin and Fort Union lignite coal mercury removal(1) In generalIn addition to the programs authorized by subsection (a), the Secretary shall establish a program to test and develop technologies to control and remove mercury emissions from subbituminous coal mined in the Powder River Basin, and Fort Union lignite coals, that are used for the generation of electricity.


(2) Efficacy of mercury removal technologyIn carrying out the program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall examine the efficacy of mercury removal technologies on coals described in that paragraph that are blended with other types of coal.



(d) Fuel cells(1) In generalThe Secretary shall conduct a program of research, development, demonstration, and commercial application on fuel cells for low-cost, high-efficiency, fuel-flexible, modular power systems.


(2) DemonstrationsThe demonstrations referred to in paragraph (1) shall include solid oxide fuel cell technology for commercial, residential, and transportation applications, and distributed generation systems, using improved manufacturing production and processes.



(Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 962, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 890.)


References in TextSubchapter IV, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b)(2)(D)(ii), was in the original “title IV”, meaning title IV of Pub. L. 109–58, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 749, which enacted subchapter IV of this chapter and subchapter XIII (§ 13571 et seq.) of chapter 134 of this title, amended sections 201, 202a, 203, and 207 of Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining, and enacted provisions set out as notes under section 15801 of this title and section 201 of Title 30. For complete classification of title IV to the Code, see Tables.


