“Sec. 310 [sic]. (a) The Federal Co-chairman of the Denali Commission shall appoint an Economic Development Committee to be chaired by the president of the Alaska Federation of Natives which shall include the Commissioner of Community and Economic Affairs for the State of Alaska, a representative from the Alaska Bankers Association, the chairman of the Alaska Permanent Fund, a representative from the Alaska State Chamber of Commerce, and a representative from each region. Of the regional representatives, at least two each shall be from Native regional corporations, Native non-profit corporations, tribes, and borough governments.“(b) The Economic Development Committee is authorized to consider and approve applications from Regional Advisory Committees for grants and loans to promote economic development and promote private sector investment to reduce poverty in economically distressed rural villages. The Economic Development Committee may make mini-grants to individual applicants and may issue loans under such terms and conditions as it determines.

“(c) The State Co-chairman of the Denali Commission shall appoint a Regional Advisory Committee for each region which may include representatives from local, borough, and tribal governments, the Alaska Native non-profit corporation operating in the region, local Chambers of Commerce, and representatives of the private sector. Each Regional Advisory Committee shall develop a regional economic development plan for consideration by the Economic Development Committee.

“(d) The Economic Development Committee, in consultation with the First Alaskans Institute, may develop rural development performance measures linking economic growth to poverty reduction to measure the success of its program which may include economic, educational, social, and cultural indicators. The performance measures will be tested in one region for 2 years and evaluated by the University of Alaska before being deployed statewide. Thereafter, performance in each region shall be evaluated using the performance measures, and the Economic Development Committee shall not fund projects which do not demonstrate success.

“(e) Within the amounts made available annually to the Denali Commission for training, the Commission may make a grant to the First Alaskans Foundation upon submittal of an acceptable work plan to assist Alaska Natives and other rural residents in acquiring the skills and training necessary to participate fully in private sector business and economic and development opportunities through fellowships, scholarships, internships, public service programs, and other leadership initiatives.

“(f) The Committee shall sponsor a statewide economic development summit in consultation with the World Bank to evaluate the best practices for economic development worldwide and how they can be incorporated into regional economic development plans.

“(g) There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to the following agencies which shall be transferred to the Denali Commission as a direct lump sum payment to implement this section—“(1) Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration,

“(2) Department of Housing and Urban Development,

“(3) Department of the Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs,

“(4) Department of Agriculture, Rural Development Administration, and

“(5) Small Business Administration.


