§ 9205. Technology application programs(a) Unit, operating, and maintenance costsThe Secretary shall establish a technology application program for wind energy systems to achieve the purposes of this chapter by reduction in unit costs of wind energy systems through mass production and by determination of operating and maintenance costs through broad operational systems experience.


(b) Proposals for Federal assistanceIn achieving the objectives of this section, the Secretary shall solicit and evaluate proposals for Federal assistance pursuant to paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (c) of this section for investigating, purchasing, and installing such wind energy systems from public or private entities wishing to utilize wind energy systems.


(c) Forms of Federal assistanceIn achieving the objectives of this section, the Secretary is authorized to use various forms of Federal assistance including, but not limited to—(1) contracts and cooperative agreements;

(2) grants;

(3) loans; and

(4) direct Federal procurement.


(d) Quantity production and utilizationIn carrying out his duties under this chapter, the Secretary is authorized to enter into such contracts and cooperative agreements with any public or private entity as may be necessary or appropriate for the production and utilization of large and small wind energy systems in quantities sufficient to achieve the objectives of this section.


(e) Procedure for direct grants for large systems; limitation of amountIn carrying out his duties under this chapter, the Secretary shall, within six months of September 8, 1980, establish procedures to allow any public or private entity wishing to install a large wind energy system to apply for and, upon meeting such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, to receive a direct grant for a portion of the total purchase and installation cost of such wind energy system: Provided, That grants for the portion of such cost in the case of large wind energy systems shall not exceed (A) 50 per centum of such cost during the first six years of the program under this subsection, and (B) 25 per centum of such cost during the seventh or eighth year of the program.


(f) Procedure for loans for small or large systems; limitation of amount; term; interest; prepayment; other terms and conditions(1) In carrying out his duties under this chapter, the Secretary shall, within six months of September 8, 1980, establish procedures to allow public or private entities wishing to install a small or large wind energy system to apply for and, upon meeting such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, to receive loans for up to 75 per centum of the total purchase and installation costs of wind energy systems providing in the aggregate up to three hundred and twenty megawatts peak generating capacity involving at a minimum four projects: Provided, That no such loan in any fiscal year shall be for more than 50 per centum of the amount appropriated under this chapter for such fiscal year.

(2) Each loan shall be for a term which the Secretary deems appropriate, but no loan shall exceed twenty years beyond the date the wind energy system becomes operational.

(3) Each loan made pursuant to this section shall bear interest at the discount or interest rate used at the time the loan is made for water resource planning projects under section 1962d–17 of this title. Such loan can be prepaid at any time without prepayment penalty and shall be contingent upon such other terms and conditions prescribed by the Secretary.


(g) Funds for Federal agency systems; projects and activities for technology applications of systems(1) In carrying out his duties under this chapter, the Secretary is authorized to provide funds for the accelerated procurement and installation of small and large wind energy systems by Federal agencies.

(2) The Secretary is authorized to enter into arrangements with appropriate Federal agencies, including the Water and Power Resources Services and the Federal power marketing agencies for large wind energy systems, to carry out such projects and activities as may be appropriate for the broad technology applications of small and large wind energy systems which are suitable and effective for use by such Federal agencies.


(h) Observation, monitoring, and reporting requirements; public inspectionThe terms and conditions prescribed by the Secretary under this subsection shall require such observation, monitoring, and reporting requirements as the Secretary deems necessary for a period of five years and shall provide for members of the public to view and inspect the system under reasonable conditions.


(i) Termination of new Federal assistance and Federal assistance programsNew Federal assistance for technology applications systems shall terminate upon the appropriate determination by the Secretary, in the annual update of the comprehensive program management plan pursuant to section 9203 of this title. Termination of the small wind energy systems program shall occur when the Secretary finds that such systems have become economically competitive with conventional energy sources, or on September 30, 1985, whichever occurs first. Termination of the large wind energy systems program shall occur when the Secretary finds that such systems have become economically competitive with conventional energy sources, or on September 30, 1988, whichever occurs first.


(Pub. L. 96–345, § 6, Sept. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 1142.)


References in TextSection 1962d–17 of this title, referred to in subsec. (f)(3), was in the original “section 80 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 1962(d)–17(a))”. Section 80 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1974 is classified to section 1962d–17 of this title.


Change of Name
The Water and Power Resources Service changed to the Bureau of Reclamation on May 18, 1981. See 155 Dep’t of the Interior, Departmental Manual 1.1 (2008 repl.); Sec’y James G. Watt, Dep’t of the Interior, Secretarial Order 3064, §§ 3, 5 (May 18, 1981).


