§ 10412. Specialized services for abused parents and their children(a) In general(1) ProgramThe Secretary shall establish a grant program to expand the capacity of family violence, domestic violence, and dating violence service programs and community-based programs to prevent future domestic violence by addressing, in an appropriate manner, the needs of children exposed to family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence.


(2) GrantsThe Secretary may make grants to eligible entities through the program established under paragraph (1) for periods of not more than 2 years. If the Secretary determines that an entity has received such a grant and been successful in meeting the objectives of the grant application submitted under subsection (c), the Secretary may renew the grant for 1 additional period of not more than 2 years.



(b) Eligible entitiesTo be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall be a local agency, a nonprofit private organization (including faith-based and charitable organizations, community-based organizations, and voluntary associations), or a tribal organization, with a demonstrated record of serving victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence and their children.


(c) ApplicationAn entity seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require, including—(1) a description of how the entity will prioritize the safety of, and confidentiality of information about—(A) victims of family violence, victims of domestic violence, and victims of dating violence; and

(B) children of victims described in subparagraph (A);


(2) a description of how the entity will provide developmentally appropriate and age-appropriate services, and culturally and linguistically appropriate services, to the victims and children; and

(3) a description of how the entity will ensure that professionals working with the children receive the training and technical assistance appropriate and relevant to the unique needs of children exposed to family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence.


(d) Use of fundsAn entity that receives a grant under this section for a family violence, domestic violence, and dating violence service or community-based program described in subsection (a)—(1) shall use the funds made available through the grant—(A) to provide direct counseling, appropriate services consistent with subsection (c)(2), or advocacy on behalf of victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence and their children, including coordinating services with services provided by the child welfare system;

(B) to provide services for nonabusing parents to support those parents’ roles as caregivers and their roles in responding to the social, emotional, and developmental needs of their children; and

(C) where appropriate, to provide the services described in this subsection while working with such a nonabusing parent and child together; and


(2) may use the funds made available through the grant—(A) to provide early childhood development and mental health services;

(B) to coordinate activities with and provide technical assistance to community-based organizations serving victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence or children exposed to family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence; and

(C) to provide additional services and referrals to services for children, including child care, transportation, educational support, respite care, supervised visitation, or other necessary services.



(e) Reports and evaluationEach entity receiving a grant under this section shall submit a performance report to the Secretary at such time as shall be reasonably required by the Secretary. Such performance report shall describe the activities that have been carried out with such grant funds, contain an evaluation of the effectiveness of such activities, and provide such additional information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(Pub. L. 98–457, title III, § 312, as added Pub. L. 111–320, title II, § 201, Dec. 20, 2010, 124 Stat. 3503.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 10412, Pub. L. 98–457, title III, § 312, Oct. 9, 1984, 98 Stat. 1764; Pub. L. 102–295, title III, § 318, May 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 208; Pub. L. 108–36, title IV, § 408, June 25, 2003, 117 Stat. 827, related to authority of Secretary, construction with State and local law, and funding for evaluation, monitoring, and other administrative costs, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by Pub. L. 111–320.
A prior section 312 of Pub. L. 98–457, which was classified to section 10411 of this title, was repealed by section 303(a) of Pub. L. 100–294.


