§ 44517. Program to permit cost sharing of air traffic modernization projects(a) In General.—Subject to the requirements of this section, the Secretary may carry out a program under which the Secretary may make grants to project sponsors for not more than 10 eligible projects per fiscal year for the purpose of improving aviation safety and enhancing mobility of the Nation’s air transportation system by encouraging non-Federal investment in critical air traffic control equipment and software.

(b) Federal Share.—The Federal share of the cost of an eligible project carried out under the program shall not exceed 33 percent. The non-Federal share of the cost of an eligible project shall be provided from non-Federal sources, including revenues collected pursuant to section 40117.

(c) Limitation on Grant Amounts.—No eligible project may receive more than $5,000,000 in Federal funds under the program.

(d) Funding.—The Secretary shall use amounts appropriated under section 48101(a) to carry out the program.

(e) Definitions.—In this section, the following definitions apply:(1) Eligible project.—The term “eligible project” means a project to purchase equipment or software relating to the Nation’s air traffic control system that is certified or approved by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration and that promotes safety, efficiency, or mobility. Such projects may include—(A) airport-specific air traffic facilities and equipment, including local area augmentation systems, instrument landing systems, weather and wind shear detection equipment, and lighting improvements;

(B) automation tools to effect improvements in airport capacity, including passive final approach spacing tools and traffic management advisory equipment; and

(C) equipment and software that enhance airspace control procedures or assist in en route surveillance, including oceanic and offshore flight tracking.


(2) Project sponsor.—The term “project sponsor” means any major user of the national airspace system, as determined by the Secretary, including a public-use airport or a joint venture between a public-use airport and one or more air carriers.


(f) Transfers of Equipment.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and upon agreement by the Administrator, a project sponsor may transfer, without consideration, to the Federal Aviation Administration, facilities, equipment, or automation tools, the purchase of which was assisted by a grant made under this section, if such facilities, equipment or tools meet Federal Aviation Administration operation and maintenance criteria.

(g) Guidelines.—The Administrator shall issue advisory guidelines on the implementation of the program. The guidelines shall not be subject to administrative rulemaking requirements under subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5.

(Added Pub. L. 108–176, title I, § 183(a), Dec. 12, 2003, 117 Stat. 2516.)

Effective DateSection applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 2003, except as otherwise specifically provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–176, set out as an Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under section 106 of this title.


