“Sec. 30. [Social Security Act; amendment.] (a)(1) Paragraph (8) of subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Social Security Act, relating to definition of Federal percentage for purposes of matching for public assistance grants, is amended by striking out ‘continental United States (including Alaska)’ and inserting in lieu thereof ‘United States’.

“(2) Subparagraph (A) of such paragraph is further amended by striking out ‘(i)’ and by striking out ‘, and (ii) the Federal percentage shall be 50 per centum for Hawaii’.

“(3) Such paragraph is further amended by adding after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraphs:“ ‘(C) The term “United States” means (but only for purposes of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph) the fifty States and the District of Columbia.
“ ‘(D) Promulgations made before satisfactory data are available from the Department of Commerce for a full year on the per capita income of Alaska shall prescribe a Federal percentage for Alaska of 50 per centum and, for purposes of such promulgations, Alaska shall not be included as part of the “United States”. Promulgations made thereafter but before per capita income data for Alaska for a full three-year period are available from the Department of Commerce shall be based on satisfactory data available therefrom for Alaska for such one full year or, when such data are available for a two-year period, for such two years.’



“(b)(1) Subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 524 of such Act, relating to the definition of allotment percentages and Federal shares for purposes of allotment and matching for child welfare services grants, are each amended by striking out ‘continental United States (including Alaska)’ and inserting in lieu thereof ‘United States’.

“(2) Such section is further amended by adding after subsection (c) the following new subsections:“ ‘(d) For purposes of this section, the term “United States” means the fifty States and the District of Columbia.
“ ‘(e) Promulgations made before satisfactory data are available from the Department of Commerce for a full year on the per capita income of Alaska shall prescribe a Federal share for Alaska of 50 per centum and, for purposes of such promulgations, Alaska shall not be included as part of the “United States”. Promulgations made thereafter but before per capita income data for Alaska for a full three-year period are available from the Department of Commerce shall be based on satisfactory data available therefrom for Alaska for such one full year or, when such data are available for a two-year period, for such two years.’



“(c)(1) The last sentence of subsection (i) of section 202 of the Social Security Act is amended by striking out ‘forty-nine’ and inserting in lieu thereof ‘fifty’.

“(2) Subsections (h) and (i) of section 210 of such Act relating to definitions of State and United States for purposes of old-age, survivors, and disability insurance, are each amended by striking out ‘Hawaii,’. Such subsection (h) is further amended by striking out the comma after ‘District of Columbia’.


“(d)(1) Paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of section 1101 of such Act, relating to definition of State, is amended by striking out ‘Hawaii and’.

“(2) Paragraph (2) of such subsection, as amended relating to definition of ‘United States’, is amended by striking out ‘, Hawaii,’.


“(e) Subparagraph (C) and (G) of paragraph (6) of subsection (d) of section 218 of the Social Security Act, as amended, are each further amended by striking out ‘the Territory of’ and ‘or Territory’ each time they appear therein.

“(f) Subsection (p) of such section is amended by striking out ‘Territory of’.

“(g) The last sentence of subsection (a) of section 1501 of the Social Security Act is amended by striking out ‘Alaska, Hawaii,’.

