§ 16512. Terms and conditions(a) In generalExcept for division C of Public Law 108–324 [15 U.S.C. 720 et seq.], the Secretary shall make guarantees under this or any other Act for projects on such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines, after consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, only in accordance with this section.


(b) Specific appropriation or contribution(1) 11 So in original. No par. (2) has been enacted. In generalNo guarantee shall be made unless—(A) an appropriation for the cost of the guarantee has been made;

(B) the Secretary has received from the borrower a payment in full for the cost of the guarantee and deposited the payment into the Treasury; or

(C) a combination of one or more appropriations under subparagraph (A) and one or more payments from the borrower under subparagraph (B) has been made that is sufficient to cover the cost of the guarantee.



(c) AmountUnless otherwise provided by law, a guarantee by the Secretary shall not exceed an amount equal to 80 percent of the project cost of the facility that is the subject of the guarantee, as estimated at the time at which the guarantee is issued.


(d) Repayment(1) In generalNo guarantee shall be made unless the Secretary determines that there is reasonable prospect of repayment of the principal and interest on the obligation by the borrower.


(2) AmountNo guarantee shall be made unless the Secretary determines that the amount of the obligation (when combined with amounts available to the borrower from other sources) will be sufficient to carry out the project.


(3) SubordinationThe obligation shall be subject to the condition that the obligation is not subordinate to other financing.



(e) Interest rateAn obligation shall bear interest at a rate that does not exceed a level that the Secretary determines appropriate, taking into account the prevailing rate of interest in the private sector for similar loans and risks.


(f) TermThe term of an obligation shall require full repayment over a period not to exceed the lesser of—(1) 30 years; or

(2) 90 percent of the projected useful life of the physical asset to be financed by the obligation (as determined by the Secretary).


(g) Defaults(1) Payment by Secretary(A) In generalIf a borrower defaults on the obligation (as defined in regulations promulgated by the Secretary and specified in the guarantee contract), the holder of the guarantee shall have the right to demand payment of the unpaid amount from the Secretary.


(B) Payment requiredWithin such period as may be specified in the guarantee or related agreements, the Secretary shall pay to the holder of the guarantee the unpaid interest on, and unpaid principal of the obligation as to which the borrower has defaulted, unless the Secretary finds that there was no default by the borrower in the payment of interest or principal or that the default has been remedied.


(C) ForbearanceNothing in this subsection precludes any forbearance by the holder of the obligation for the benefit of the borrower which may be agreed upon by the parties to the obligation and approved by the Secretary.



(2) Subrogation(A) In generalIf the Secretary makes a payment under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall be subrogated to the rights of the recipient of the payment as specified in the guarantee or related agreements including, where appropriate, the authority (notwithstanding any other provision of law) to—(i) complete, maintain, operate, lease, or otherwise dispose of any property acquired pursuant to such guarantee or related agreements; or

(ii) permit the borrower, pursuant to an agreement with the Secretary, to continue to pursue the purposes of the project if the Secretary determines this to be in the public interest.


(B) Superiority of rightsThe rights of the Secretary, with respect to any property acquired pursuant to a guarantee or related agreements, shall be superior to the rights of any other person with respect to the property.


(C) Terms and conditionsA guarantee agreement shall include such detailed terms and conditions as the Secretary determines appropriate to—(i) protect the interests of the United States in the case of default; and

(ii) have available all the patents and technology necessary for any person selected, including the Secretary, to complete and operate the project.



(3) Payment of principal and interest by SecretaryWith respect to any obligation guaranteed under this section, the Secretary may enter into a contract to pay, and pay, holders of the obligation, for and on behalf of the borrower, from funds appropriated for that purpose, the principal and interest payments which become due and payable on the unpaid balance of the obligation if the Secretary finds that—(A)(i) the borrower is unable to meet the payments and is not in default;

(ii) it is in the public interest to permit the borrower to continue to pursue the purposes of the project; and

(iii) the probable net benefit to the Federal Government in paying the principal and interest will be greater than that which would result in the event of a default;


(B) the amount of the payment that the Secretary is authorized to pay shall be no greater than the amount of principal and interest that the borrower is obligated to pay under the agreement being guaranteed; and

(C) the borrower agrees to reimburse the Secretary for the payment (including interest) on terms and conditions that are satisfactory to the Secretary.


(4) Action by Attorney General(A) NotificationIf the borrower defaults on an obligation, the Secretary shall notify the Attorney General of the default.


(B) RecoveryOn notification, the Attorney General shall take such action as is appropriate to recover the unpaid principal and interest due from—(i) such assets of the defaulting borrower as are associated with the obligation; or

(ii) any other security pledged to secure the obligation.




(h) Fees(1) In generalThe Secretary shall charge and collect fees for guarantees in amounts the Secretary determines are sufficient to cover applicable administrative expenses.


(2) AvailabilityFees collected under this subsection shall—(A) be deposited by the Secretary into the Treasury; and

(B) remain available until expended, subject to such other conditions as are contained in annual appropriations Acts.



(i) Records; audits(1) In generalA recipient of a guarantee shall keep such records and other pertinent documents as the Secretary shall prescribe by regulation, including such records as the Secretary may require to facilitate an effective audit.


(2) AccessThe Secretary and the Comptroller General of the United States, or their duly authorized representatives, shall have access, for the purpose of audit, to the records and other pertinent documents.



(j) Full faith and creditThe full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the payment of all guarantees issued under this section with respect to principal and interest.


(k) Wage rate requirementsAll laborers and mechanics employed by contractors and subcontractors in the performance of construction work financed in whole or in part by a loan guaranteed under this subchapter shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on projects of a character similar in the locality as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40. With respect to the labor standards in this subsection, the Secretary of Labor shall have the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267; 5 U.S.C. App.) and section 3145 of title 40.


(Pub. L. 109–58, title XVII, § 1702, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 1117; Pub. L. 111–85, title III, § 310, Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2873; Pub. L. 112–74, div. B, title III, § 305(1), Dec. 23, 2011, 125 Stat. 877.)


References in TextDivision C of Public Law 108–324, referred to in subsec. (a), is division C of Pub. L. 108–324, Oct. 13, 2004, 118 Stat. 1255, known as the Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline Act, which is classified principally to chapter 15D (§ 720 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of division C to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 720 of Title 15 and Tables.
Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950, referred to in subsec. (k), is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Amendments2011—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 112–74 added subsec. (b) and struck out former subsec. (b). Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “No guarantee shall be made unless—
“(1) an appropriation for the cost has been made; or
“(2) the Secretary has received from the borrower a payment in full for the cost of the obligation and deposited the payment into the Treasury.”
2009—Subsec. (k). Pub. L. 111–85 added subsec. (k).


