“SEC. 704. REFERENDA.“(a) Creation of Program.—“(1) In general.—The oilheat fuel industry, through the qualified industry organization, may conduct, at its own expense, a referendum among retail marketers and wholesale distributors for the establishment of a national oilheat fuel research alliance.

“(2) Reimbursement of cost.—The Alliance, if established, shall reimburse the qualified industry organization for the cost of accounting and documentation for the referendum.

“(3) Conduct.—A referendum under paragraph (1) shall be conducted by an independent auditing firm.

“(4) Voting rights.—“(A) Retail marketers.—Voting rights of retail marketers in a referendum under paragraph (1) shall be based on the volume of oilheat fuel sold in a State by each retail marketer in the calendar year previous to the year in which the referendum is conducted or in another representative period.

“(B) Wholesale distributors.—Voting rights of wholesale distributors in a referendum under paragraph (1) shall be based on the volume of No. 1 distillate and No. 2 dyed distillate sold in a State by each wholesale distributor in the calendar year previous to the year in which the referendum is conducted or in another representative period, weighted by the ratio of the total volume of No. 1 distillate and No. 2 dyed distillate sold for nonindustrial commercial and residential space and hot water heating in the State to the total volume of No. 1 distillate and No. 2 dyed distillate sold in that State.


“(5) Establishment by approval of two-thirds.—“(A) In general.—Subject to subparagraph (B), on approval of persons representing two-thirds of the total volume of oilheat fuel voted in the retail marketer class and two-thirds of the total weighted volume of No. 1 distillate and No. 2 dyed distillate voted in the wholesale distributor class, the Alliance shall be established and shall be authorized to levy assessments under section 707.

“(B) Requirement of majority of retail marketers.—Except as provided in subsection (b), the oilheat fuel industry in a State shall not participate in the Alliance if less than 50 percent of the retail marketer vote in the State approves establishment of the Alliance.


“(6) Certification of volumes.—Each person voting in the referendum shall certify to the independent auditing firm the volume of oilheat fuel, No. 1 distillate, or No. 2 dyed distillate represented by the vote of the person.

“(7) Notification.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this title [Nov. 9, 2000], a qualified State association may notify the qualified industry organization in writing that a referendum under paragraph (1) will not be conducted in the State.


“(b) Subsequent State Participation.—The oilheat fuel industry in a State that has not participated initially in the Alliance may subsequently elect to participate by conducting a referendum under subsection (a).

“(c) Termination or Suspension.—“(1) In general.—On the initiative of the Alliance or on petition to the Alliance by retail marketers and wholesale distributors representing 25 percent of the volume of oilheat fuel or weighted No. 1 distillate and No. 2 dyed distillate in each class, the Alliance shall, at its own expense, hold a referendum, to be conducted by an independent auditing firm selected by the Alliance, to determine whether the oilheat fuel industry favors termination or suspension of the Alliance.

“(2) Volume percentages required to terminate or suspend.—Termination or suspension shall not take effect unless termination or suspension is approved by persons representing more than one-half of the total volume of oilheat fuel voted in the retail marketer class or more than one-half of the total volume of weighted No. 1 distillate and No. 2 dyed distillate voted in the wholesale distributor class.

“(3) Termination by a state.—A State may elect to terminate participation by notifying the Alliance that 50 percent of the oilheat fuel volume in the State has voted in a referendum to withdraw.


“(d) Calculation of Oilheat Fuel Sales.—For the purposes of this section and section 705, the volume of oilheat fuel sold annually in a State shall be determined on the basis of information provided by the Energy Information Administration with respect to a calendar year or other representative period.

