§ 5553. Solar Energy Coordination and Management Project(a) EstablishmentThere is hereby established the Solar Energy Coordination and Management Project.


(b) Membership; chairman; compensation(1) The Project shall be composed of six members as follows:(A) an Assistant Director of the National Science Foundation;

(B) an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development;

(C) a member of the Federal Power Commission;

(D) an Associate Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;

(E) the General Manager of the Atomic Energy Commission; and

(F) a member to be designated by the President.


(2) The President shall designate one member of the Project to serve as Chairman of the Project.

(3) If the individual designated under paragraph (1)(F) is an officer or employee of the Federal Government, he shall receive no additional pay on account of his service as a member of the Project. If such individual is not an officer or employee of the Federal Government, he shall be entitled to receive the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for level IV of the Executive Schedule (5 U.S.C. 5315) for each day (including traveltime) during which he is engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the Project.


(c) ResponsibilitiesThe Project shall have overall responsibility for the provision of effective management and coordination with respect to a national solar energy research, development, and demonstration program, including—(1) the determination and evaluation of the resource base, including its temporal and geographic characteristics;

(2) research and development on solar energy technologies; and

(3) the demonstration of appropriate solar energy technologies.


(d) Cooperation with other Federal agencies; assignment of other Federal agency personnel to Project(1) The Project shall carry out its responsibilities under this section in cooperation with the following Federal agencies:(A) the National Science Foundation, the responsibilities of which shall include research;

(B) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the responsibilities of which shall include the provision of management capability and the development of technologies;

(C) the Atomic Energy Commission, the responsibilities of which shall include the development of technologies;

(D) the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the responsibilities of which shall include fostering the utilization of solar energy for the heating and cooling of buildings, pursuant to subchapter I of this chapter; and

(E) the Federal Power Commission, the responsibilities of which shall include fostering the utilization of solar energy for the generation of electricity and for the production of synthetic fuels.


(2) Upon request of the Chairman, the head of any such agency is authorized to detail or assign, on a reimbursable basis or otherwise, any of the personnel of such agency to the Project to assist it in carrying out its responsibilities under this subchapter.


(e) Establishment or approval of program or project; operation and administration of program or projectThe Project shall have exclusive authority with respect to the establishment or approval of programs or projects initiated under this subchapter, but the agency involved in any particular program or project shall be responsible for the operation and administration of such program or project.


(f) Authorization of National Aeronautics and Space Administration to undertake and carry out assigned programsThe National Aeronautics and Space Administration is authorized to undertake and carry out those programs assigned to it by the Project.


(Pub. L. 93–473, § 4, Oct. 26, 1974, 88 Stat. 1432.)


Transfer of Functions
Federal Power Commission terminated and its functions, personnel, property, funds, etc., transferred to Secretary of Energy (except for certain functions which were transferred to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) by sections 7151(b), 7171(a), 7172(a), 7291, and 7293 of this title.
For transfer of functions of Federal Power Commission, with certain reservations, to chairman of such Commission, see Reorg. Plan No. 9 of 1950, §§ 1,2, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3175, 64 Stat. 1265, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
Atomic Energy Commission abolished and functions transferred by sections 5814 and 5841 of this title. See also Transfer of Functions notes set out under those sections.
Functions of National Science Foundation relating to or utilized in connection with solar heating and cooling development transferred to Administrator of Energy Research and Development Administration by section 5814(f) of this title. Energy Research and Development Administration terminated and functions vested by law in Administrator thereof transferred to Secretary of Energy (unless otherwise specifically provided) by sections 7151(a) and 7293 this title.


