§ 14045. Grants for outreach and services to underserved populations(a) Grants authorized(1) In generalOf the amounts appropriated under the grant programs identified in paragraph (2), the Attorney General shall take 2 percent of such appropriated amounts and combine them to award grants to eligible entities described in subsection (b) of this section to develop and implement outreach strategies targeted at adult or youth victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking in underserved populations and to provide victim services to meet the needs of adult and youth victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking in underserved populations. The requirements of the grant programs identified in paragraph (2) shall not apply to this grant program.


(2) Programs coveredThe programs covered by paragraph (1) are the programs carried out under the following provisions:(A) Section 3796gg of this title (Grants to Combat Violent Crimes Against Women).

(B) Section 3796hh of this title (Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders Program).



(b) Eligible entitiesEligible entities under this section are—(1) population specific organizations that have demonstrated experience and expertise in providing population specific services in the relevant underserved communities, or population specific organizations working in partnership with a victim service provider or domestic violence or sexual assault coalition;

(2) victim service providers offering population specific services for a specific underserved population; or

(3) victim service providers working in partnership with a national, State, tribal, or local organization that has demonstrated experience and expertise in providing population specific services in the relevant underserved population.


(c) Planning grantsThe Attorney General may use up to 25 percent of funds available under this section to make one-time planning grants to eligible entities to support the planning and development of specially designed and targeted programs for adult and youth victims in one or more underserved populations, including—(1) identifying, building and strengthening partnerships with potential collaborators within underserved populations, Federal, State, tribal, territorial or local government entities, and public and private organizations;

(2) conducting a needs assessment of the community and the targeted underserved population or populations to determine what the barriers are to service access and what factors contribute to those barriers, using input from the targeted underserved population or populations;

(3) identifying promising prevention, outreach and intervention strategies for victims from a targeted underserved population or populations; and

(4) developing a plan, with the input of the targeted underserved population or populations, for implementing prevention, outreach and intervention strategies to address the barriers to accessing services, promoting community engagement in the prevention of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking within the targeted underserved populations, and evaluating the program.


(d) Implementation grantsThe Attorney General shall make grants to eligible entities for the purpose of providing or enhancing population specific outreach and services to adult and youth victims in one or more underserved populations, including—(1) working with Federal, State, tribal, territorial and local governments, agencies, and organizations to develop or enhance population specific services;

(2) strengthening the capacity of underserved populations to provide population specific services;

(3) strengthening the capacity of traditional victim service providers to provide population specific services;

(4) strengthening the effectiveness of criminal and civil justice interventions by providing training for law enforcement, prosecutors, judges and other court personnel on domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking in underserved populations; or

(5) working in cooperation with an underserved population to develop and implement outreach, education, prevention, and intervention strategies that highlight available resources and the specific issues faced by victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking from underserved populations.


(e) ApplicationAn eligible entity desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women at such time, in such form, and in such manner as the Director may prescribe.


(f) ReportsEach eligible entity receiving a grant under this section shall submit to the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women a report that describes the activities carried out with grant funds.


(g) Authorization of appropriationsIn addition to the funds identified in subsection (a)(1), there are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018.


(h) Definitions and grant conditionsIn this section the definitions and grant conditions in section 13925 of this title shall apply.


(Pub. L. 109–162, title I, § 120, Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 2990; Pub. L. 109–271, §§ 1(c)(2), 2(h), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 750, 752; Pub. L. 113–4, title I, § 108, Mar. 7, 2013, 127 Stat. 78.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, and not as part of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 which enacted this chapter.

Amendments2013—Pub. L. 113–4 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to grants for outreach to underserved populations.
2006—Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 109–271, § 2(h), struck out “, every 18 months,” after “Office of Violence Against Women”.
Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 109–271, § 1(c)(2), added subsec. (i).

Effective Date of 2013 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 113–4 not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4, set out as a note under section 2261 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.


