§ 300z–6. Coordination of programs(a) The Secretary shall coordinate Federal policies and programs providing services relating to the prevention of adolescent sexual relations and initial and recurrent adolescent pregnancies and providing care services for pregnant adolescents. In achieving such coordination, the Secretary shall—(1) require grantees who receive funds for demonstration projects for services under this subchapter to report periodically to the Secretary concerning Federal, State, and local policies and programs that interfere with the delivery of and coordination of pregnancy prevention services and other programs of care for pregnant adolescents and adolescent parents;

(2) provide technical assistance to facilitate coordination by State and local recipients of Federal assistance;

(3) review all programs administered by the Department of Health and Human Services which provide prevention services or care services to determine if the policies of such programs are consistent with the policies of this subchapter, consult with other departments and agencies of the Federal Government who administer programs that provide such services, and encourage such other departments and agencies to make recommendations, as appropriate, for legislation to modify such programs in order to facilitate the use of all Government programs which provide such services as a basis for delivery of more comprehensive prevention services and more comprehensive programs of care for pregnant adolescents and adolescent parents;

(4) give priority in the provision of funds, where appropriate, to applicants using single or coordinated grant applications for multiple programs; and

(5) give priority, where appropriate, to the provision of funds under Federal programs administered by the Secretary (other than the program established by this subchapter) to projects providing comprehensive prevention services and comprehensive programs of care for pregnant adolescents and adolescent parents.


(b) Any recipient of a grant for a demonstration project for services under this subchapter shall coordinate its activities with any other recipient of such a grant which is located in the same locality.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XX, § 2007, as added Pub. L. 97–35, title IX, § 955(a), Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 589.)
