§ 1353. Federal purchase and disposition of oil and gas(a) Payment of royalties or net profit shares in oil and gas; purchase of oil and gas by United States; transfer of title to Federal agencies(1) Except as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of sections 1335 and 1336 of this title, all royalties or net profit shares, or both, accruing to the United States under any oil and gas lease issued or maintained in accordance with this subchapter, shall, on demand of the Secretary, be paid in oil or gas.

(2) The United States shall have the right to purchase not to exceed 16⅔ per centum by volume of the oil and gas produced pursuant to a lease issued or maintained in accordance with this subchapter, at the regulated price, or, if no regulated price applies, at the fair market value at the well head of the oil and gas saved, removed, or sold, except that any oil or gas obtained by the United States as royalty or net profit share shall be credited against the amount that may be purchased under this subsection.

(3) Title to any royalty, net profit share, or purchased oil or gas may be transferred, upon request, by the Secretary to the Secretary of Defense, to the Administrator of the General Services Administration, or to the Secretary of Energy, for disposal within the Federal Government.


(b) Sale of oil by United States to public; disposition of oil to small refiners; application of other laws(1) The Secretary, except as provided in this subsection, may offer to the public and sell by competitive bidding for not more than its regulated price, or, if no regulated price applies, not less than its fair market value, any part of the oil (A) obtained by the United States pursuant to any lease as royalty or net profit share, or (B) purchased by the United States pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section.

(2) Whenever, after consultation with the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary determines that small refiners do not have access to adequate supplies of oil at equitable prices, the Secretary may dispose of any oil which is taken as a royalty or net profit share accruing or reserved to the United States pursuant to any lease issued or maintained under this subchapter, or purchased by the United States pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section, by conducting a lottery for the sale of such oil, or may equitably allocate such oil among the competitors for the purchase of such oil, at the regulated price, or if no regulated price applies, at its fair market value. The Secretary shall limit participation in any allocation or lottery sale to assure such access and shall publish notice of such allocation or sale, and the terms thereof, at least thirty days in advance. Such notice shall include qualifications for participation, the amount of oil to be sold, and any limitation in the amount of oil which any participant may be entitled to purchase.

(3) The Secretary may only sell or otherwise dispose of oil described in paragraph (1) of this subsection in accordance with any provision of law, or regulations issued in accordance with such provisions, which provide for the Secretary of Energy to allocate, transfer, exchange, or sell oil in amounts or at prices determined by such provision of law or regulations.


(c) Sale of gas by United States to public(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the Secretary, pursuant to such terms as he determines, many 11 So in original. Probably should be “may”. offer to the public and sell by competitive bidding for not more than its regulated price, or, if no regulated price applies, not less than its fair market value any part of the gas (A) obtained by the United States pursuant to a lease as royalty or net profit share, or (B) purchased by the United States pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section.

(2) Whenever, after consultation with and advice from the Secretary of Energy, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission determines that an emergency shortage of natural gas is threatening to cause severe economic or social dislocation in any region of the United States and that such region can be serviced in a practical, feasible, and efficient manner by royalty, net profit share, or purchased gas obtained pursuant to the provisions of this section, the Secretary of the Interior may allocate or conduct a lottery for the sale of such gas, and shall limit participation in any allocation or lottery sale of such gas to any person servicing such region, but he shall not sell any such gas for more than its regulated price, or, if no regulated price applies, less than its fair market value. Prior to selling or allocating any gas pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary shall consult with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.


(d) Purchase by lessee of Federal oil or gas for which no bids receivedThe lessee shall take any Federal oil or gas for which no acceptable bids are received, as determined by the Secretary, and which is not transferred pursuant to subsection (a)(3) of this section, and shall pay to the United States a cash amount equal to the regulated price, or, if no regulated price applies, the fair market value of the oil or gas so obtained.


(e) DefinitionsAs used in this section—(1) the term “regulated price” means the highest price—(A) at which oil many 1 be sold pursuant to the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973 22 See References in Text note below. [15 U.S.C. 751 et seq.] and any rule or order issued under such Act;

(B) at which natural gas may be sold to natural-gas companies pursuant to the Natural Gas Act [15 U.S.C. 717 et seq.], any other Act, regulations governing natural gas pricing, or any rule or order issued under any such Act or any such regulations; or

(C) at which either Federal oil or gas may be sold under any other provision of law or rule or order thereunder which sets a price (or manner for determining a price) for oil or gas; and


(2) the term “small refiner” has the meaning given such term by Small Business Administration Standards 128.3–8(d) and (g), as in effect on September 18, 1978, or as there-after revised or amended.


(f) Purchase of oil and gas in time of warNothing in this section shall prohibit the right of the United States to purchase any oil or gas produced on the outer Continental Shelf as provided by section 1341(b) of this title.


(Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 345, § 27, as added Pub. L. 95–372, title II, § 208, Sept. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 666.)


References in TextThe Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973, referred to in subsec. (e)(1)(A), is Pub. L. 93–159, Nov. 27, 1973, 87 Stat. 628, as amended, which was classified generally to chapter 16A (§ 751 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade, and was omitted from the Code pursuant to section 760g of Title 15, which provided for the expiration of the President’s authority under that chapter on Sept. 30, 1981.
The Natural Gas Act, referred to in subsec. (e)(1)(B), is act June 21, 1938, ch. 556, 52 Stat. 821, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 15B (§ 717 et seq.) of Title 15. For complete classification of that Act to the Code, see section 717w of Title 15 and Tables.


Transfer of Functions
Functions vested in Secretary of Energy and Department of Energy under or with respect to subsec. (b)(2), (3) of this section, transferred to, and vested in, Secretary of the Interior, by section 100 of Pub. L. 97–257, 96 Stat. 841, set out as a note under section 7152 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.


