§ 6348. Energy efficiency in industrial facilities(a) Grant program(1) In generalThe Secretary shall make grants to industry associations to support programs to improve energy efficiency in industry. In order to be eligible for a grant under this subsection, an industry association shall establish a voluntary energy efficiency improvement target program.


(2) Awarding of grantsThe Secretary shall request project proposals and provide annual grants on a competitive basis. In evaluating grant proposals under this subsection, the Secretary shall consider—(A) potential energy savings;

(B) potential environmental benefits;

(C) the degree of cost sharing;

(D) the degree to which new and innovative technologies will be encouraged;

(E) the level of industry involvement;

(F) estimated project cost-effectiveness; and

(G) the degree to which progress toward the energy improvement targets can be monitored.


(3) Eligible projectsProjects eligible for grants under this subsection may include the following:(A) Workshops.

(B) Training seminars.

(C) Handbooks.

(D) Newsletters.

(E) Data bases.

(F) Other activities approved by the Secretary.


(4) Limitation on cost sharingGrants provided under this subsection shall not exceed $250,000 and each grant shall not exceed 75 percent of the total cost of the project for which the grant is made.


(5) AuthorizationThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this subsection.



(b) Award programThe Secretary shall establish an annual award program to recognize those industry associations or individual industrial companies that have significantly improved their energy efficiency.


(c) Report on industrial reporting and voluntary targetsNot later than one year after October 24, 1992, the Secretary shall, in consultation with affected industries, evaluate and report to the Congress regarding the establishment of Federally mandated energy efficiency reporting requirements and voluntary energy efficiency improvement targets for energy intensive industries. Such report shall include an evaluation of the costs and benefits of such reporting requirements and voluntary energy efficiency improvement targets, and recommendations regarding the role of such activities in improving energy efficiency in energy intensive industries.


(Pub. L. 102–486, title I, § 131, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 2836.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, and not as part of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act which comprises this chapter.


