§ 1629d. Dissenters rights(a) Coverage(1) Notwithstanding the laws of the State, if the shareholders of a Native Corporation—(A) fail to approve an amendment authorized by section 1629c(b) of this title to terminate alienability restrictions, a shareholder who voted for the amendment may demand payment from the corporation for all of his or her shares of Settlement Common Stock; or

(B) approve an amendment authorized by section 1629c(d) of this title to continue alienability restrictions without issuing alienable common stock pursuant to section 1629c(d)(6) of this title, a shareholder who voted against the amendment may demand payment from the corporation for all of his or her shares of Settlement Common Stock.


(2)(A) A demand for payment made pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) shall be honored only if at the same time as the vote giving rise to the demand, the shareholders of the corporation approved a resolution providing for the purchase of Settlement Common Stock from dissenting shareholders.

(B) A demand for payment made pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) shall be honored.



(b) Relationship to State procedure(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the laws of the State governing the right of a dissenting shareholder to demand and receive payment for his or her shares shall apply to demands for payment honored pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section.

(2) The board of directors of a Native Corporation may approve a resolution to provide a dissenting shareholder periods of time longer than those provided under the laws of the State to take actions required to demand and receive payment for his or her shares.


(c) Valuation of stock(1) Prior to a vote described in subsection (a)(1) of this section, the board of directors of a Native Corporation may approve a resolution to provide that one or more of the following conditions will apply in the event a demand for payment is honored pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section—(A) the Settlement Common Stock shall be valued as restricted stock; and

(B) the value of—(i) any land conveyed to the corporation pursuant to section 1613(h)(1) of this title or any other land used as a cemetery; and

(ii) the surface estate of any land that is both—(I) exempt from real estate taxation pursuant to section 1636(d)(1)(A) of this title, and

(II) used by the shareholders of the corporation for subsistence uses (as defined in section 3113 of title 16); or


(iii) any land or interest in land which the board of directors believes to be only of speculative value;


shall be excluded by the shareholder making the demand for payment, the corporation purchasing the Settlement Common Stock of the shareholder, and any court determining the fair value of the shares of Settlement Common Stock to be purchased.


(2) No person shall have a claim against a Native Corporation or its board of directors based upon the failure of the board to approve a resolution authorized by this subsection.


(d) Form of payment(1) Prior to a vote described in subsection (a)(1) of this section, the board of directors of a Native Corporation may approve a resolution to provide that in the event a demand for payment is honored pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section payments to each dissenting shareholder shall be made by the corporation through the issuance of a negotiable note in the principal amount of the payment due, which shall be secured by—(A) a payment bond issued by an insurance company or financial institution;

(B) the deposit in escrow of securities or property having a fair market value equal to at least 125 per centum of the face value of the note; or

(C) a lien upon real property interests of the corporation valued at 125 percent or more of the face amount of the note, except that no such lien shall be applicable to—(i) land conveyed to the corporation pursuant to section 1613(h)(1) of this title, or any other land used as a cemetery;

(ii) the percentage interest in the corporation’s timber resources and subsurface estate that exceeds its percentage interest in revenues from such property under section 1606(i) of this title; or

(iii) the surface estate of land that is both—(I) exempt from real estate taxation pursuant to section 1636(d)(1)(A) of this title; and

(II) used by the shareholders of the corporation for subsistence uses (as defined in section 3113 of title 16),



unless the Board of Directors 11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. of the corporation acts so as to make such lien applicable to such surface estate.


(2) A note issued pursuant to paragraph (1) shall provide that—(A) interest shall be paid semi-annually, beginning as of the date on which the vote described in subsection (a)(1) of this section occurred, at the rate applicable on such date to obligations of the United States having a maturity date of one year, and

(B) the principal amount and accrued interest on such note shall be payable to the holder at a time specified by the corporation but in no event later than the date that is five years after the date of the vote described in subsection (a)(1) of this section.



(e) Dividend adjustment(1) The cash payment made pursuant to subsection (a) of this section or the principal amount of a note issued pursuant to subsection (d) of this section to a dissenting shareholder shall be reduced by the amount of dividends paid to such shareholder with respect to his or her Settlement Common Stock after the date of the vote described in subsection (a)(1) of this section.

(2) Upon receipt of a cash payment pursuant to subsection (a) of this section or a note pursuant to subsection (d) of this section, a dissenting shareholder shall no longer have an interest in the shares of Settlement Common Stock or in the Native Corporation.


(Pub. L. 92–203, § 38, as added Pub. L. 100–241, § 9, Feb. 3, 1988, 101 Stat. 1802.)
