§ 1397k–1. Advisory Board on Elder Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation(a) EstablishmentThere is established a board to be known as the “Advisory Board on Elder Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation” (in this section referred to as the “Advisory Board”) to create short- and long-term multidisciplinary strategic plans for the development of the field of elder justice and to make recommendations to the Elder Justice Coordinating Council established under section 1397k of this title.


(b) CompositionThe Advisory Board shall be composed of 27 members appointed by the Secretary from among members of the general public who are individuals with experience and expertise in elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation prevention, detection, treatment, intervention, or prosecution.


(c) Solicitation of nominationsThe Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal Register soliciting nominations for the appointment of members of the Advisory Board under subsection (b).


(d) Terms(1) In generalEach member of the Advisory Board shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, except that, of the members first appointed—(A) 9 shall be appointed for a term of 3 years;

(B) 9 shall be appointed for a term of 2 years; and

(C) 9 shall be appointed for a term of 1 year.


(2) Vacancies(A) In generalAny vacancy on the Advisory Board shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.


(B) Filling unexpired termAn individual chosen to fill a vacancy shall be appointed for the unexpired term of the member replaced.



(3) Expiration of termsThe term of any member shall not expire before the date on which the member’s successor takes office.



(e) Election of officersThe Advisory Board shall elect a Chair and Vice Chair from among its members. The Advisory Board shall elect its initial Chair and Vice Chair at its initial meeting.


(f) Duties(1) Enhance communication on promoting quality of, and preventing abuse, neglect, and exploitation in, long-term careThe Advisory Board shall develop collaborative and innovative approaches to improve the quality of, including preventing abuse, neglect, and exploitation in, long-term care.


(2) Collaborative efforts to develop consensus around the management of certain quality-related factors(A) In generalThe Advisory Board shall establish multidisciplinary panels to address, and develop consensus on, subjects relating to improving the quality of long-term care. At least 1 such panel shall address, and develop consensus on, methods for managing resident-to-resident abuse in long-term care.


(B) Activities conductedThe multidisciplinary panels established under subparagraph (A) shall examine relevant research and data, identify best practices with respect to the subject of the panel, determine the best way to carry out those best practices in a practical and feasible manner, and determine an effective manner of distributing information on such subject.



(3) ReportNot later than the date that is 18 months after March 23, 2010, and annually thereafter, the Advisory Board shall prepare and submit to the Elder Justice Coordinating Council, the Committee on Finance of the Senate, and the Committee on Ways and Means and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report containing—(A) information on the status of Federal, State, and local public and private elder justice activities;

(B) recommendations (including recommended priorities) regarding—(i) elder justice programs, research, training, services, practice, enforcement, and coordination;

(ii) coordination between entities pursuing elder justice efforts and those involved in related areas that may inform or overlap with elder justice efforts, such as activities to combat violence against women and child abuse and neglect; and

(iii) activities relating to adult fiduciary systems, including guardianship and other fiduciary arrangements;


(C) recommendations for specific modifications needed in Federal and State laws (including regulations) or for programs, research, and training to enhance prevention, detection, and treatment (including diagnosis) of, intervention in (including investigation of), and prosecution of elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation;

(D) recommendations on methods for the most effective coordinated national data collection with respect to elder justice, and elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation; and

(E) recommendations for a multidisciplinary strategic plan to guide the effective and efficient development of the field of elder justice.



(g) Powers of the Advisory Board(1) Information from Federal agenciesSubject to the requirements of section 1397j–1(a) of this title, the Advisory Board may secure directly from any Federal department or agency such information as the Advisory Board considers necessary to carry out this section. Upon request of the Chair of the Advisory Board, the head of such department or agency shall furnish such information to the Advisory Board.


(2) Sharing of data and reportsThe Advisory Board may request from any entity pursuing elder justice activities under the Elder Justice Act of 2009 or an amendment made by that Act, any data, reports, or recommendations generated in connection with such activities.


(3) Postal servicesThe Advisory Board may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the Federal Government.



(h) Travel expensesThe members of the Advisory Board shall not receive compensation for the performance of services for the Advisory Board. The members shall be allowed travel expenses for up to 4 meetings per year, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Advisory Board. Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, the Secretary may accept the voluntary and uncompensated services of the members of the Advisory Board.


(i) Detail of Government employeesAny Federal Government employee may be detailed to the Advisory Board without reimbursement, and such detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.


(j) Status as permanent advisory committeeSection 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the advisory board.11 So in original. Probably should be “Advisory Board”.


(k) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.


(Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title XX, § 2022, as added Pub. L. 111–148, title VI, § 6703(a)(1)(C), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 787.)


References in TextThe Elder Justice Act of 2009, referred to in subsec. (g)(2), is subtitle H (§§ 6701–6703) of title VI of Pub. L. 111–148, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 782. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2010 Amendment note set out under section 1305 of this title and Tables.
Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (j), is section 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


