§ 15603. National prison rape statistics, data, and research(a) Annual comprehensive statistical review(1) In generalThe Bureau of Justice Statistics of the Department of Justice (in this section referred to as the “Bureau”) shall carry out, for each calendar year, a comprehensive statistical review and analysis of the incidence and effects of prison rape. The statistical review and analysis shall include, but not be limited to the identification of the common characteristics of—(A) both victims and perpetrators of prison rape; and

(B) prisons and prison systems with a high incidence of prison rape.


(2) ConsiderationsIn carrying out paragraph (1), the Bureau shall consider—(A) how rape should be defined for the purposes of the statistical review and analysis;

(B) how the Bureau should collect information about staff-on-inmate sexual assault;

(C) how the Bureau should collect information beyond inmate self-reports of prison rape;

(D) how the Bureau should adjust the data in order to account for differences among prisons as required by subsection (c)(3);

(E) the categorization of prisons as required by subsection (c)(4); and

(F) whether a preliminary study of prison rape should be conducted to inform the methodology of the comprehensive statistical review.


(3) Solicitation of viewsThe Bureau of Justice Statistics shall solicit views from representatives of the following: State departments of correction; county and municipal jails; juvenile correctional facilities; former inmates; victim advocates; researchers; and other experts in the area of sexual assault.


(4) Sampling techniquesThe review and analysis under paragraph (1) shall be based on a random sample, or other scientifically appropriate sample, of not less than 10 percent of all Federal, State, and county prisons, and a representative sample of municipal prisons. The selection shall include at least one prison from each State. The selection of facilities for sampling shall be made at the latest practicable date prior to conducting the surveys and shall not be disclosed to any facility or prison system official prior to the time period studied in the survey. Selection of a facility for sampling during any year shall not preclude its selection for sampling in any subsequent year.


(5) SurveysIn carrying out the review and analysis under paragraph (1), the Bureau shall, in addition to such other methods as the Bureau considers appropriate, use surveys and other statistical studies of current and former inmates from a sample of Federal, State, county, and municipal prisons. The Bureau shall ensure the confidentiality of each survey participant, except as authorized in paragraph (7).


(6) Participation in surveyFederal, State, or local officials or facility administrators that receive a request from the Bureau under subsection (a)(4) or (5) will be required to participate in the national survey and provide access to any inmates under their legal custody.


(7) Reporting on child abuse and neglectNothing in section 3735 or 3789g of this title or any other provision of law, including paragraph (5), shall prevent the Bureau (including its agents), in carrying out the review and analysis under paragraph (1), from reporting to the designated public officials such information (and only such information) regarding child abuse or child neglect with respect to which the statutes or regulations of a State (or a political subdivision thereof) require prompt reporting.



(b) Review Panel on Prison Rape(1) EstablishmentTo assist the Bureau in carrying out the review and analysis under subsection (a), there is established, within the Department of Justice, the Review Panel on Prison Rape (in this section referred to as the “Panel”).


(2) Membership(A) CompositionThe Panel shall be composed of 3 members, each of whom shall be appointed by the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services.


(B) QualificationsMembers of the Panel shall be selected from among individuals with knowledge or expertise in matters to be studied by the Panel.



(3) Public hearings(A) In generalThe duty of the Panel shall be to carry out, for each calendar year, public hearings concerning the operation of the three prisons with the highest incidence of prison rape and the two prisons with the lowest incidence of prison rape in each category of facilities identified under subsection (c)(4). The Panel shall hold a separate hearing regarding the three Federal or State prisons with the highest incidence of prison rape. The purpose of these hearings shall be to collect evidence to aid in the identification of common characteristics of both victims and perpetrators of prison rape, and the identification of common characteristics of prisons and prison systems with a high incidence of prison rape, and the identification of common characteristics of prisons and prison systems that appear to have been successful in deterring prison rape.


(B) Testimony at hearings(i) Public officialsIn carrying out the hearings required under subparagraph (A), the Panel shall request the public testimony of Federal, State, and local officials (and organizations that represent such officials), including the warden or director of each prison, who bears responsibility for the prevention, detection, and punishment of prison rape at each entity, and the head of the prison system encompassing such prison.


(ii) VictimsThe Panel may request the testimony of prison rape victims, organizations representing such victims, and other appropriate individuals and organizations.



(C) Subpoenas(i) IssuanceThe Panel may issue subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses and the production of written or other matter.


(ii) EnforcementIn the case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Attorney General may in a Federal court of appropriate jurisdiction obtain an appropriate order to enforce the subpoena.





(c) Reports(1) In generalNot later than June 30 of each year, the Attorney General shall submit a report on the activities of the Bureau and the Review Panel, with respect to prison rape, for the preceding calendar year to—(A) Congress; and

(B) the Secretary of Health and Human Services.


(2) ContentsThe report required under paragraph (1) shall include—(A) with respect to the effects of prison rape, statistical, sociological, and psychological data;

(B) with respect to the incidence of prison rape—(i) statistical data aggregated at the Federal, State, prison system, and prison levels;

(ii) a listing of those institutions in the representative sample, separated into each category identified under subsection (c)(4) and ranked according to the incidence of prison rape in each institution; and

(iii) an identification of those institutions in the representative sample that appear to have been successful in deterring prison rape; and


(C) a listing of any prisons in the representative sample that did not cooperate with the survey conducted pursuant to this section.


(3) Data adjustmentsIn preparing the information specified in paragraph (2), the Attorney General shall use established statistical methods to adjust the data as necessary to account for differences among institutions in the representative sample, which are not related to the detection, prevention, reduction and punishment of prison rape, or which are outside the control of the State, prison, or prison system, in order to provide an accurate comparison among prisons. Such differences may include the mission, security level, size, and jurisdiction under which the prison operates. For each such adjustment made, the Attorney General shall identify and explain such adjustment in the report.


(4) Categorization of prisonsThe report shall divide the prisons surveyed into three categories. One category shall be composed of all Federal and State prisons. The other two categories shall be defined by the Attorney General in order to compare similar institutions.



(d) Contracts and grantsIn carrying out its duties under this section, the Attorney General may—(1) provide grants for research through the National Institute of Justice; and

(2) contract with or provide grants to any other entity the Attorney General deems appropriate.


(e) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2004 through 2010 to carry out this section.


(Pub. L. 108–79, § 4, Sept. 4, 2003, 117 Stat. 975; Pub. L. 109–108, title I, § 113(a), Nov. 22, 2005, 119 Stat. 2305.)

Amendments2005—Subsec. (a)(5). Pub. L. 109–108, § 113(a)(1), inserted “, except as authorized in paragraph (7)” before period at end.
Subsec. (a)(7). Pub. L. 109–108, § 113(a)(2), added par. (7).


