§ 256g. Grants for innovative programs(a) Grant program authorizedThe Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, is authorized to award grants to States for the purpose of helping States develop and implement innovative programs to address the dental workforce needs of designated dental health professional shortage areas in a manner that is appropriate to the States’ individual needs.


(b) State activitiesA State receiving a grant under subsection (a) of this section may use funds received under the grant for—(1) loan forgiveness and repayment programs for dentists who—(A) agree to practice in designated dental health professional shortage areas;

(B) are dental school graduates who agree to serve as public health dentists for the Federal, State, or local government; and

(C) agree to—(i) provide services to patients regardless of such patients’ ability to pay; and

(ii) use a sliding payment scale for patients who are unable to pay the total cost of services;



(2) dental recruitment and retention efforts;

(3) grants and low-interest or no-interest loans to help dentists who participate in the medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) to establish or expand practices in designated dental health professional shortage areas by equipping dental offices or sharing in the overhead costs of such practices;

(4) the establishment or expansion of dental residency programs in coordination with accredited dental training institutions in States without dental schools;

(5) programs developed in consultation with State and local dental societies to expand or establish oral health services and facilities in designated dental health professional shortage areas, including services and facilities for children with special needs, such as—(A) the expansion or establishment of a community-based dental facility, free-standing dental clinic, consolidated health center dental facility, school-linked dental facility, or United States dental school-based facility;

(B) the establishment of a mobile or portable dental clinic; and

(C) the establishment or expansion of private dental services to enhance capacity through additional equipment or additional hours of operation;


(6) placement and support of dental students, dental residents, and advanced dentistry trainees;

(7) continuing dental education, including distance-based education;

(8) practice support through teledentistry conducted in accordance with State laws;

(9) community-based prevention services such as water fluoridation and dental sealant programs;

(10) coordination with local educational agencies within the State to foster programs that promote children going into oral health or science professions;

(11) the establishment of faculty recruitment programs at accredited dental training institutions whose mission includes community outreach and service and that have a demonstrated record of serving underserved States;

(12) the development of a State dental officer position or the augmentation of a State dental office to coordinate oral health and access issues in the State; and

(13) any other activities determined to be appropriate by the Secretary.


(c) Application(1) In generalEach State desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(2) AssurancesThe application shall include assurances that the State will meet the requirements of subsection (d) of this section and that the State possesses sufficient infrastructure to manage the activities to be funded through the grant and to evaluate and report on the outcomes resulting from such activities.



(d) Matching requirementThe Secretary may not make a grant to a State under this section unless that State agrees that, with respect to the costs to be incurred by the State in carrying out the activities for which the grant was awarded, the State will provide non-Federal contributions in an amount equal to not less than 40 percent of Federal funds provided under the grant. The State may provide the contributions in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, and services and may provide the contributions from State, local, or private sources.


(e) ReportNot later than 5 years after October 26, 2002, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report containing data relating to whether grants provided under this section have increased access to dental services in designated dental health professional shortage areas.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $25,000,000 for the 5-fiscal year period beginning with fiscal year 2008.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 340G, as added Pub. L. 107–251, title IV, § 403, Oct. 26, 2002, 116 Stat. 1661; amended Pub. L. 110–355, § 5, Oct. 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 3994.)


References in TextThe Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620, as amended. Title XIX of the Act is classified generally to subchapter XIX (§ 1396 et seq.) of chapter 7 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1305 of this title and Tables.

Amendments2008—Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 110–355 substituted “$25,000,000” for “$50,000,000” and “2008” for “2002”.


