§ 16197. Advanced Energy Technology Transfer Centers(a) GrantsNot later than 18 months after May 8, 2008, the Secretary shall make grants to nonprofit institutions, State and local governments, cooperative extension services, or institutions of higher education (or consortia thereof), to establish a geographically dispersed network of Advanced Energy Technology Transfer Centers, to be located in areas the Secretary determines have the greatest need of the services of such Centers. In making awards under this section, the Secretary shall—(1) give priority to applicants already operating or partnered with an outreach program capable of transferring knowledge and information about advanced energy efficiency methods and technologies;

(2) ensure that, to the extent practicable, the program enables the transfer of knowledge and information—(A) about a variety of technologies; and

(B) in a variety of geographic areas;


(3) give preference to applicants that would significantly expand on or fill a gap in existing programs in a geographical region; and

(4) consider the special needs and opportunities for increased energy efficiency for manufactured and site-built housing, including construction, renovation, and retrofit.


(b) ActivitiesEach Center shall operate a program to encourage demonstration and commercial application of advanced energy methods and technologies through education and outreach to building and industrial professionals, and to other individuals and organizations with an interest in efficient energy use. Funds awarded under this section may be used for the following activities:(1) Developing and distributing informational materials on technologies that could use energy more efficiently.

(2) Carrying out demonstrations of advanced energy methods and technologies.

(3) Developing and conducting seminars, workshops, long-distance learning sessions, and other activities to aid in the dissemination of knowledge and information on technologies that could use energy more efficiently.

(4) Providing or coordinating onsite energy evaluations, including instruction on the commissioning of building heating and cooling systems, for a wide range of energy end-users.

(5) Examining the energy efficiency needs of energy end-users to develop recommended research projects for the Department.

(6) Hiring experts in energy efficient technologies to carry out activities described in paragraphs (1) through (5).


(c) ApplicationA person seeking a grant under this section shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form and containing such information as the Secretary may require. The Secretary may award a grant under this section to an entity already in existence if the entity is otherwise eligible under this section. The application shall include, at a minimum—(1) a description of the applicant’s outreach program, and the geographic region it would serve, and of why the program would be capable of transferring knowledge and information about advanced energy technologies that increase efficiency of energy use;

(2) a description of the activities the applicant would carry out, of the technologies that would be transferred, and of any other organizations that will help facilitate a regional approach to carrying out those activities;

(3) a description of how the proposed activities would be appropriate to the specific energy needs of the geographic region to be served;

(4) an estimate of the number and types of energy end-users expected to be reached through such activities; and

(5) a description of how the applicant will assess the success of the program.


(d) Selection criteriaThe Secretary shall award grants under this section on the basis of the following criteria, at a minimum:(1) The ability of the applicant to carry out the proposed activities.

(2) The extent to which the applicant will coordinate the activities of the Center with other entities as appropriate, such as State and local governments, utilities, institutions of higher education, and National Laboratories.

(3) The appropriateness of the applicant’s outreach program for carrying out the program described in this section.

(4) The likelihood that proposed activities could be expanded or used as a model for other areas.


(e) Cost-sharingIn carrying out this section, the Secretary shall require cost-sharing in accordance with the requirements of section 16352 of this title for commercial application activities.


(f) Duration(1) Initial grant periodA grant awarded under this section shall be for a period of 5 years.


(2) Initial evaluationEach grantee under this section shall be evaluated during its third year of operation under procedures established by the Secretary to determine if the grantee is accomplishing the purposes of this section described in subsection (a). The Secretary shall terminate any grant that does not receive a positive evaluation. If an evaluation is positive, the Secretary may extend the grant for 3 additional years beyond the original term of the grant.


(3) Additional extensionIf a grantee receives an extension under paragraph (2), the grantee shall be evaluated again during the second year of the extension. The Secretary shall terminate any grant that does not receive a positive evaluation. If an evaluation is positive, the Secretary may extend the grant for a final additional period of 3 additional years beyond the original extension.


(4) LimitationNo grantee may receive more than 11 years of support under this section without reapplying for support and competing against all other applicants seeking a grant at that time.



(g) ProhibitionNone of the funds awarded under this section may be used for the construction of facilities.


(h) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section:(1) Advanced energy methods and technologiesThe term “advanced energy methods and technologies” means all methods and technologies that promote energy efficiency and conservation, including distributed generation technologies, and life-cycle analysis of energy use.


(2) CenterThe term “Center” means an Advanced Energy Technology Transfer Center established pursuant to this section.


(3) Distributed generationThe term “distributed generation” means an electric power generation technology, including photovoltaic, small wind, and micro-combined heat and power, that serves electric consumers at or near the site of production.


(4) Cooperative ExtensionThe term “Cooperative Extension” means the extension services established at the land-grant colleges and universities under the Smith-Lever Act of May 8, 1914 [7 U.S.C. 341 et seq.].


(5) Land-grant colleges and universitiesThe term “land-grant colleges and universities” means—(A) 1862 Institutions (as defined in section 7601 of title 7);

(B) 1890 Institutions (as defined in section 7601 of title 7); and

(C) 1994 Institutions (as defined in section 7601 of title 7).



(i) Authorization of appropriationsIn addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated in section 16191 of this title, there are authorized to be appropriated for the program under this section such sums as may be appropriated.


(Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 917, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 863; Pub. L. 110–229, title VI, § 601, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 850.)


References in TextThe Smith-Lever Act of May 8, 1914, referred to in subsec. (h)(4), is act May 8, 1914, ch. 79, 38 Stat. 372, which is classified generally to subchapter IV (§ 341 et seq.) of chapter 13 of Title 7, Agriculture. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 341 of Title 7 and Tables.

Codification
May 8, 2008, referred to in subsec. (a), was in the original “the date of enactment of the National Forests, Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation Projects Authorization Act of 2008” and was translated as meaning the date of enactment of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008, Pub. L. 110–229, which amended this section generally, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. The National Forests, Parks, Public Land, and Reclamation Projects Authorization Act of 2008, was S. 2616, 110th Congress, introduced in the Senate on Feb. 8, 2008, with action thereon indefinitely postponed. The provisions of section 601 of that bill generally amended section 917 of Pub. L. 109–58 (this section) and was a predecessor version of section 601 of Pub. L. 109–229.

Amendments2008—Pub. L. 110–229 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to grants for the establishment of a network of Advanced Energy Efficiency Technology Transfer Centers.


