“SEC. 3543. AWARD OF ASSISTANCE.“(a) In General.—If after review of a proposal, the Secretary determines that the proposal fulfills the requirements under this subtitle, the Secretary may enter into a contract with the proposed purchaser and the proposed shipyard for the construction of a product tank vessel with assistance under this subtitle.

“(b) Amount of Assistance.—The contract shall provide that the Secretary shall pay, subject to the availability of appropriations, the actual construction cost of the vessel, but in no case more than $50,000,000 per vessel.

“(c) Construction in United States.—A contract under this section shall require that construction of a vessel with assistance under this subtitle shall be performed in a shipyard in the United States.

“(d) Documentation of Vessel.—“(1) Contract requirement.—A contract under this section shall require that, upon delivery of a vessel constructed with assistance under the contract, the vessel shall be documented under chapter 121 of title 46, United States Code, with a registry endorsement only.

“(2) Restriction on coastwise endorsement.—A vessel constructed with assistance under this subtitle shall not be eligible for a certificate of documentation with a coastwise endorsement.

“(3) Authority to reflag not applicable.—Section 9(g) [probably should be 9(e)] of the Shipping Act, 1916, ([former] 46 U.S.C. App. 808(g) [probably should be 808(e)]) [now 46 U.S.C. 56101(c)] shall not apply to a vessel constructed with assistance under this subtitle.


“(e) Emergency Preparedness Agreement.—“(1) In general.—A contract under this section shall require that the person who will be the operator of a vessel constructed with assistance under the contract shall enter into an Emergency Preparedness Agreement for the vessel under section 53107 of title 46, United States Code, as amended by this Act.

“(2) Treatment as contractor.—For purposes of the application, under paragraph (1), of section 53107 of title 46, United States Code, to a vessel constructed with assistance under this subtitle, the term ‘contractor’ as used in that section means the person who will be the operator of a vessel constructed with assistance under this subtitle.


“(f) Additional Terms.—The Secretary shall incorporate in the contract the requirements set forth in this subtitle, and may incorporate in the contract any additional terms the Secretary considers necessary.

