§ 14043f. Grant for national resource center on workplace responses to assist victims of domestic and sexual violence(a) AuthorityThe Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Office on Violence Against Women, may award a grant to an eligible nonprofit nongovernmental entity or tribal organization, in order to provide for the establishment and operation of a national resource center on workplace responses to assist victims of domestic and sexual violence. The resource center shall provide information and assistance to employers and labor organizations to aid in their efforts to develop and implement responses to such violence.


(b) ApplicationsTo be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity or organization shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Attorney General may require, including—(1) information that demonstrates that the entity or organization has nationally recognized expertise in the area of domestic or sexual violence;

(2) a plan to maximize, to the extent practicable, outreach to employers (including private companies and public entities such as public institutions of higher education and State and local governments) and labor organizations described in subsection (a) of this section concerning developing and implementing workplace responses to assist victims of domestic or sexual violence; and

(3) a plan for developing materials and training for materials for employers that address the needs of employees in cases of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking impacting the workplace, including the needs of underserved communities.


(c) Use of grant amount(1) In generalAn entity or organization that receives a grant under this section may use the funds made available through the grant for staff salaries, travel expenses, equipment, printing, and other reasonable expenses necessary to develop, maintain, and disseminate to employers and labor organizations described in subsection (a) of this section, information and assistance concerning workplace responses to assist victims of domestic or sexual violence.


(2) ResponsesResponses referred to in paragraph (1) may include—(A) providing training to promote a better understanding of workplace assistance to victims of domestic or sexual violence;

(B) providing conferences and other educational opportunities; and

(C) developing protocols and model workplace policies.



(d) LiabilityThe compliance or noncompliance of any employer or labor organization with any protocol or policy developed by an entity or organization under this section shall not serve as a basis for liability in tort, express or implied contract, or by any other means. No protocol or policy developed by an entity or organization under this section shall be referenced or enforced as a workplace safety standard by any Federal, State, or other governmental agency.


(e) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018.


(f) Availability of grant fundsFunds appropriated under this section shall remain available until expended.


(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41501, as added Pub. L. 109–162, title VII, § 701, Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 3052; amended Pub. L. 113–4, title VII, § 701, Mar. 7, 2013, 127 Stat. 110.)

Amendments2013—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 113–4 substituted “fiscal years 2014 through 2018” for “fiscal years 2007 through 2011”.

Effective Date of 2013 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 113–4 not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4, set out as a note under section 2261 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.


