§ 6619. National coordination of research infrastructure(a) Identification and prioritization of deficiencies in Federal research facilitiesEach year the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall, through the National Science and Technology Council, identify and prioritize the deficiencies in research facilities and major instrumentation located at Federal laboratories and national user facilities at academic institutions that are widely accessible for use by researchers in the United States. In prioritizing such deficiencies, the Director shall consider research needs in areas relevant to the specific mission requirements of Federal agencies.


(b) Planning for acquisition, refurbishment, and maintenance of research facilities and major instrumentationThe Director shall, through the National Science and Technology Council, coordinate the planning by Federal agencies for the acquisition, refurbishment, and maintenance of research facilities and major instrumentation to address the deficiencies identified under subsection (a).


(c) ReportThe Director shall submit to Congress each year, together with documents submitted to Congress in support of the budget of the President for the fiscal year beginning in such year (as submitted pursuant to section 1105 of title 31), a report, current as of the fiscal year ending in the year before such report is submitted, setting forth the following:(1) A description of the deficiencies in research infrastructure identified in accordance with subsection (a).

(2) A list of projects and budget proposals of Federal research facilities, set forth by agency, for major instrumentation acquisitions that are included in the budget proposal of the President.

(3) An explanation of how the projects and instrumentation acquisitions described in paragraph (2) relate to the deficiencies and priorities identified pursuant to subsection (a).


(Pub. L. 110–69, title I, § 1007, Aug. 9, 2007, 121 Stat. 580.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the America COMPETES Act, also known as the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Act, and not as part of the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 which comprises this chapter.


