§ 17271. Carbon dioxide sequestration capacity assessment(a) DefinitionsIn this section—(1) AssessmentThe term “assessment” means the national assessment of onshore capacity for carbon dioxide completed under subsection (f).


(2) CapacityThe term “capacity” means the portion of a sequestration formation that can retain carbon dioxide in accordance with the requirements (including physical, geological, and economic requirements) established under the methodology developed under subsection (b).


(3) Engineered hazardThe term “engineered hazard” includes the location and completion history of any well that could affect potential sequestration.


(4) RiskThe term “risk” includes any risk posed by geomechanical, geochemical, hydrogeological, structural, and engineered hazards.


(5) SecretaryThe term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United States Geological Survey.


(6) Sequestration formationThe term “sequestration formation” means a deep saline formation, unmineable coal seam, or oil or gas reservoir that is capable of accommodating a volume of industrial carbon dioxide.



(b) MethodologyNot later than 1 year after December 19, 2007, the Secretary shall develop a methodology for conducting an assessment under subsection (f), taking into consideration—(1) the geographical extent of all potential sequestration formations in all States;

(2) the capacity of the potential sequestration formations;

(3) the injectivity of the potential sequestration formations;

(4) an estimate of potential volumes of oil and gas recoverable by injection and sequestration of industrial carbon dioxide in potential sequestration formations;

(5) the risk associated with the potential sequestration formations; and

(6) the work done to develop the Carbon Sequestration Atlas of the United States and Canada that was completed by the Department.


(c) Coordination(1) Federal coordination(A) ConsultationThe Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency on issues of data sharing, format, development of the methodology, and content of the assessment required under this section to ensure the maximum usefulness and success of the assessment.


(B) CooperationThe Secretary of Energy and the Administrator shall cooperate with the Secretary to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, the usefulness and success of the assessment.



(2) State coordinationThe Secretary shall consult with State geological surveys and other relevant entities to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, the usefulness and success of the assessment.



(d) External review and publicationOn completion of the methodology under subsection (b), the Secretary shall—(1) publish the methodology and solicit comments from the public and the heads of affected Federal and State agencies;

(2) establish a panel of individuals with expertise in the matters described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (b) composed, as appropriate, of representatives of Federal agencies, institutions of higher education, nongovernmental organizations, State organizations, industry, and international geoscience organizations to review the methodology and comments received under paragraph (1); and

(3) on completion of the review under paragraph (2), publish in the Federal Register the revised final methodology.


(e) Periodic updatesThe methodology developed under this section shall be updated periodically (including at least once every 5 years) to incorporate new data as the data becomes available.


(f) National assessment(1) In generalNot later than 2 years after the date of publication of the methodology under subsection (d)(1), the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and State geological surveys, shall complete a national assessment of capacity for carbon dioxide in accordance with the methodology.


(2) Geological verificationAs part of the assessment under this subsection, the Secretary shall carry out a drilling program to supplement the geological data relevant to determining sequestration capacity of carbon dioxide in geological sequestration formations, including—(A) well log data;

(B) core data; and

(C) fluid sample data.


(3) Partnership with other drilling programsAs part of the drilling program under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall enter, as appropriate, into partnerships with other entities to collect and integrate data from other drilling programs relevant to the sequestration of carbon dioxide in geological formations.


(4) Incorporation into NatCarb(A) In generalOn completion of the assessment, the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of the Interior shall incorporate the results of the assessment using—(i) the NatCarb database, to the maximum extent practicable; or

(ii) a new database developed by the Secretary of Energy, as the Secretary of Energy determines to be necessary.


(B) RankingThe database shall include the data necessary to rank potential sequestration sites for capacity and risk, across the United States, within each State, by formation, and within each basin.



(5) ReportNot later than 180 days after the date on which the assessment is completed, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a report describing the findings under the assessment.


(6) Periodic updatesThe national assessment developed under this section shall be updated periodically (including at least once every 5 years) to support public and private sector decisionmaking.



(g) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $30,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2008 through 2012.


(Pub. L. 110–140, title VII, § 711, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1710.)
