§ 16103. Conserve by Bicycling Program(a) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) ProgramThe term “program” means the Conserve by Bicycling Program established by subsection (b).


(2) SecretaryThe term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Transportation.



(b) EstablishmentThere is established within the Department of Transportation a program to be known as the “Conserve by Bicycling Program”.


(c) Projects(1) In generalIn carrying out the program, the Secretary shall establish not more than 10 pilot projects that are—(A) dispersed geographically throughout the United States; and

(B) designed to conserve energy resources by encouraging the use of bicycles in place of motor vehicles.


(2) RequirementsA pilot project described in paragraph (1) shall—(A) use education and marketing to convert motor vehicle trips to bicycle trips;

(B) document project results and energy savings (in estimated units of energy conserved);

(C) facilitate partnerships among interested parties in at least 2 of the fields of—(i) transportation;

(ii) law enforcement;

(iii) education;

(iv) public health;

(v) environment; and

(vi) energy;


(D) maximize bicycle facility investments;

(E) demonstrate methods that may be used in other regions of the United States; and

(F) facilitate the continuation of ongoing programs that are sustained by local resources.


(3) Cost sharingAt least 20 percent of the cost of each pilot project described in paragraph (1) shall be provided from non-Federal sources.



(d) Energy and bicycling research study(1) In generalNot later than 2 years after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall enter into a contract with the National Academy of Sciences for, and the National Academy of Sciences shall conduct and submit to Congress a report on, a study on the feasibility of converting motor vehicle trips to bicycle trips.


(2) ComponentsThe study shall—(A) document the results or progress of the pilot projects under subsection (c);

(B) determine the type and duration of motor vehicle trips that people in the United States may feasibly make by bicycle, taking into consideration factors such as—(i) weather;

(ii) land use and traffic patterns;

(iii) the carrying capacity of bicycles; and

(iv) bicycle infrastructure;


(C) determine any energy savings that would result from the conversion of motor vehicle trips to bicycle trips;

(D) include a cost-benefit analysis of bicycle infrastructure investments; and

(E) include a description of any factors that would encourage more motor vehicle trips to be replaced with bicycle trips.



(e) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $6,200,000, to remain available until expended, of which—(1) $5,150,000 shall be used to carry out pilot projects described in subsection (c);

(2) $300,000 shall be used by the Secretary to coordinate, publicize, and disseminate the results of the program; and

(3) $750,000 shall be used to carry out subsection (d).


(Pub. L. 109–58, title VII, § 755, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 828.)
