§ 3937. National housing partnership(a) Formation of limited partnership; partnership agreementThe corporation is authorized to arrange for the formation, as a separate organization, of a limited partnership (hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the “partnership”) under the District of Columbia Uniform Limited Partnership Act for the purpose of engaging in any of the activities authorized for the corporation under section 3936 of this title, and to enter into a partnership agreement governing the affairs of such limited partnership.


(b) Applicability of other laws; legal status of limited partnershipThe partnership shall be subject to the provisions, to the extent consistent with this chapter, of (1) the District of Columbia Uniform Limited Partnership Act and (2) those provisions of the District of Columbia Uniform Partnership Act made applicable by section 6(2) of that Act. Notwithstanding any inconsistency between the provisions of such Acts, or of any other law, and the provisions of this section, the partnership organized pursuant to this section shall be deemed to have the legal status of a limited partnership.


(c) Authorization to enter into partnerships, limited partnerships, or joint ventures organized under State or local laws for purpose of engaging in low and moderate income housing developments, projects, or undertakingsThe partnership is authorized to enter into partnerships, limited partnerships, or joint ventures organized under applicable State or local law for the purpose of engaging in low and moderate income housing developments, proj­ects, or undertakings in particular localities.


(d) General partner; capital of partnership; contribution of partnersThe corporation shall be the general partner in the partnership. The capital of the partnership and the contributions of the partners shall be in such amounts and at such times as are set forth in or pursuant to the partnership agreement.


(e) Partnership agreement; participation in low and moderate income housing developments, projects, or undertakings; limitation on aggregate initial equity investmentThe partnership agreement shall include provisions designed to assure that (1) the partnership shall participate in low and moderate income housing developments, projects, or undertakings in a manner designed to encourage the participation therein of local interests, and (2) in any such development, project, or undertaking the partnership shall not subscribe to more than 25 per centum (including equity investments made in services or property) of the aggregate initial equity investment unless, in the judgment of the corporation as general partner, the balance of the required equity investment is not readily obtainable from other responsible investors residing or doing business in the local community.


(f) Partnership agreement; authorization for stockholders to become limited partners; inclusion of other limited partners; acquisition of assignor’s stock by assignee of limited partner; approval of substitution or addition of partnership memberThe partnership agreement may without limitation (1) permit each of the stockholders of the corporation to become a member of the partnership as a limited partner, (2) authorize the inclusion of other limited partners in addition to the stockholders of the corporation, (3) provide that the assignee of the partnership interest of a limited partner of the partnership who is also a stockholder of the corporation may not become a substituted limited partner unless he also acquires the assignor’s stock of the corporation, and (4) include provisions requiring that the corporation as a general partner approve the substitution or addition of a member of the partnership.


(g) Liability of corporation as general partner; treatment of interest of limited partner in partnershipA corporation which is a limited partner in the partnership shall not become liable as a general partner by reason of the fact that (1) such corporation is a holder of shares of voting stock of the corporation constituting not more than 5 per centum of the total number of outstanding shares of such stock and exercises any of the rights (including voting rights) of a holder of such shares, and/or (2) a person who is an officer or director of such corporation (or of another corporation which controls or is subject to the control of, or is under common control with, such corporation) is a director of the corporation and performs the duties of that office. The interest of a limited partner in the partnership shall not be treated as a stock interest in the corporation, notwithstanding that such interest of a limited partner may be proportionate to his stock interest in the corporation.


(h) Execution of certificate of partnership and amendmentsThe certificate of the partnership and any amendment thereof required by the District of Columbia Uniform Limited Partnership Act shall be executed and acknowledged by the corporation as member and by each other member of the partnership or his attorney-in-fact duly authorized by power of attorney in writing. The corporation may execute and acknowledge the certificate and any amendment thereof as attorney-in-fact for any member, member to be substituted or added, or assigning member, by whom the certificate or amendment is required to be executed and acknowledged and who has appointed the corporation as such attorney.


(Pub. L. 90–448, title IX, § 907, Aug. 1, 1968, 82 Stat. 549.)


References in TextThe District of Columbia Uniform Limited Partnership Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (h), is Pub. L. 87–716, Sept. 28, 1962, 76 Stat. 655, as amended, which is not classified to the Code.
The District of Columbia Uniform Partnership Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is Pub. L. 87–709, Sept. 27, 1962, 76 Stat. 636, as amended, which is not classified to the Code.


