§ 16391. Improved technology transfer of energy technologies(a) Technology Transfer CoordinatorThe Secretary shall appoint a Technology Transfer Coordinator to be the principal advisor to the Secretary on all matters relating to technology transfer and commercialization.


(b) QualificationsThe Coordinator shall be an individual who, by reason of professional background and experience, is specially qualified to advise the Secretary on matters pertaining to technology transfer at the Department.


(c) Duties of the CoordinatorThe Coordinator shall oversee—(1) the activities of the Technology Transfer Working Group established under subsection (d);

(2) the expenditure of funds allocated for technology transfer within the Department;

(3) the activities of each technology partnership ombudsman appointed under section 7261c of this title; and

(4) efforts to engage private sector entities, including venture capital companies.


(d) Technology Transfer Working GroupThe Secretary shall establish a Technology Transfer Working Group, which shall consist of representatives of the National Laboratories and single-purpose research facilities, to—(1) coordinate technology transfer activities occurring at National Laboratories and single-purpose research facilities;

(2) exchange information about technology transfer practices, including alternative approaches to resolution of disputes involving intellectual property rights and other technology transfer matters; and

(3) develop and disseminate to the public and prospective technology partners information about opportunities and procedures for technology transfer with the Department, including opportunities and procedures related to alternative approaches to resolution of disputes involving intellectual property rights and other technology transfer matters.


(e) Technology Commercialization FundThe Secretary shall establish an Energy Technology Commercialization Fund, using 0.9 percent of the amount made available to the Department for applied energy research, development, demonstration, and commercial application for each fiscal year, to be used to provide matching funds with private partners to promote promising energy technologies for commercial purposes.


(f) Technology transfer responsibilityNothing in this section affects the technology transfer responsibilities of Federal employees under the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.).


(g) Planning and reporting(1) In generalNot later than 180 days after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a technology transfer execution plan.


(2) UpdatesEach year after the submission of the plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to Congress an updated execution plan and reports that describe progress toward meeting goals set forth in the execution plan and the funds expended under subsection (e).



(Pub. L. 109–58, title X, § 1001, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 926.)


References in TextThe Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, referred to in subsec. (f), is Pub. L. 96–480, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2311, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 63 (§ 3701 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3701 of Title 15 and Tables.


