“SEC. 9. REVIEW OF RECORDS BY THE ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD.“(a) Custody of Records Reviewed by Board.—Pending the outcome of the Review Board’s review activity, a Government office shall retain custody of its assassination records for purposes of preservation, security, and efficiency, unless—“(1) the Review Board requires the physical transfer of records for reasons of conducting an independent and impartial review; or

“(2) such transfer is necessary for an administrative hearing or other official Review Board function.


“(b) Startup Requirements.—The Review Board shall—“(1) not later than 90 days after the date of its appointment, publish a schedule for review of all assassination records in the Federal Register; and

“(2) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 26, 1992], begin its review of assassination records under this Act.


“(c) Determinations of the Review Board.—(1) The Review Board shall direct that all assassination records be transmitted to the Archivist and disclosed to the public in the Collection in the absence of clear and convincing evidence that—“(A) a Government record is not an assassination record; or

“(B) a Government record or particular information within an assassination record qualifies for postponement of public disclosure under this Act.


“(2) In approving postponement of public disclosure of an assassination record, the Review Board shall seek to—“(A) provide for the disclosure of segregable parts, substitutes, or summaries of such a record; and

“(B) determine, in consultation with the originating body and consistent with the standards for postponement under this Act, which of the following alternative forms of disclosure shall be made by the originating body:“(i) Any reasonably segregable particular information in an assassination record.

“(ii) A substitute record for that information which is postponed.

“(iii) A summary of an assassination record.



“(3) With respect to each assassination record or particular information in assassination records the public disclosure of which is postponed pursuant to section 6, or for which only substitutions or summaries have been disclosed to the public, the Review Board shall create and transmit to the Archivist a report containing—“(A) a description of actions by the Review Board, the originating body, the President, or any Government office (including a justification of any such action to postpone disclosure of any record or part of any record) and of any official proceedings conducted by the Review Board with regard to specific assassination records; and

“(B) a statement, based on a review of the proceedings and in conformity with the decisions reflected therein, designating a recommended specified time at which or a specified occurrence following which the material may be appropriately disclosed to the public under this Act.


“(4)(A) Following its review and a determination that an assassination record shall be publicly disclosed in the Collection or postponed for disclosure and held in the protected Collection, the Review Board shall notify the head of the originating body of its determination and publish a copy of the determination in the Federal Register within 14 days after the determination is made.

“(B) Contemporaneous notice shall be made to the President for Review Board determinations regarding executive branch assassination records, and to the oversight committees designated in this Act in the case of legislative branch records. Such notice shall contain a written unclassified justification for public disclosure or postponement of disclosure, including an explanation of the application of any standards contained in section 6.



“(d) Presidential Authority Over Review Board Determination.—“(1) Public disclosure or postponement of disclosure.—After the Review Board has made a formal determination concerning the public disclosure or postponement of disclosure of an executive branch assassination record or information within such a record, or of any information contained in an assassination record, obtained or developed solely within the executive branch, the President shall have the sole and nondelegable authority to require the disclosure or postponement of such record or information under the standards set forth in section 6, and the President shall provide the Review Board with an unclassified written certification specifying the President’s decision within 30 days after the Review Board’s determination and notice to the executive branch agency as required under this Act, stating the justification for the President’s decision, including the applicable grounds for postponement under section 6, accompanied by a copy of the identification aid required under section 4.

“(2) Periodic review.—Any executive branch assassination record postponed by the President shall be subject to the requirements of periodic review, downgrading and declassification of classified information, and public disclosure in the collection set forth in section 4.

“(3) Record of presidential postponement.—The Review Board shall, upon its receipt, publish in the Federal Register a copy of any unclassified written certification, statement, and other materials transmitted by or on behalf of the President with regard to postponement of assassination records.


“(e) Notice to Public.—Every 30 calendar days, beginning on the date that is 60 calendar days after the date on which the Review Board first approves the postponement of disclosure of an assassination record, the Review Board shall publish in the Federal Register a notice that summarizes the postponements approved by the Review Board or initiated by the President, the House of Representatives, or the Senate, including a description of the subject, originating agency, length or other physical description, and each ground for postponement that is relied upon.

“(f) Reports by the Review Board.—(1) The Review Board shall report its activities to the leadership of the Congress, the Committee on Government Operations [now Committee on Oversight and Government Reform] of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs [now Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs] of the Senate, the President, the Archivist, and the head of any Government office whose records have been the subject of Review Board activity.

“(2) The first report shall be issued on the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 26, 1992], and subsequent reports every 12 months thereafter until termination of the Review Board.

“(3) A report under paragraph (1) shall include the following information:“(A) A financial report of the expenses for all official activities and requirements of the Review Board and its personnel.

“(B) The progress made on review, transmission to the Archivist, and public disclosure of assassination records.

“(C) The estimated time and volume of assassination records involved in the completion of the Review Board’s performance under this Act.

“(D) Any special problems, including requests and the level of cooperation of Government offices, with regard to the ability of the Review Board to operate as required by this Act.

“(E) A record of review activities, including a record of postponement decisions by the Review Board or other related actions authorized by this Act, and a record of the volume of records reviewed and postponed.

“(F) Suggestions and requests to Congress for additional legislative authority needs.

“(G) An appendix containing copies of reports of postponed records to the Archivist required under section 9(c)(3) made since the date of the preceding report under this subsection.


“(4) At least 90 calendar days before completing its work, the Review Board shall provide written notice to the President and Congress of its intention to terminate its operations at a specified date.


