§ 300mm–51. Research regarding certain health conditions related to September 11 terrorist attacks(a) In generalWith respect to individuals, including enrolled WTC responders and certified-eligible WTC survivors, receiving monitoring or treatment under part B, the WTC Program Administrator shall conduct or support—(1) research on physical and mental health conditions that may be related to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks;

(2) research on diagnosing WTC-related health conditions of such individuals, in the case of conditions for which there has been diagnostic uncertainty; and

(3) research on treating WTC-related health conditions of such individuals, in the case of conditions for which there has been treatment uncertainty.


The Administrator may provide such support through continuation and expansion of research that was initiated before January 2, 2011, and through the World Trade Center Health Registry (referred to in section 300mm–52 of this title), through a Clinical Center of Excellence, or through a Data Center.

(b) Types of researchThe research under subsection (a)(1) shall include epidemiologic and other research studies on WTC-related health conditions or emerging conditions—(1) among enrolled WTC responders and certified-eligible WTC survivors under treatment; and

(2) in sampled populations outside the New York City disaster area in Manhattan as far north as 14th Street and in Brooklyn, along with control populations, to identify potential for long-term adverse health effects in less exposed populations.


(c) ConsultationThe WTC Program Administrator shall carry out this section in consultation with the WTC Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee.


(d) Application of privacy and human subject protectionsThe privacy and human subject protections applicable to research conducted under this section shall not be less than such protections applicable to research conducted or funded by the Department of Health and Human Services.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XXXIII, § 3341, as added Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101, Jan. 2, 2011, 124 Stat. 3656.)
