§ 247b–12. Safe motherhood(a) Surveillance(1) PurposeThe purpose of this subsection is to develop surveillance systems at the local, State, and national level to better understand the burden of maternal complications and mortality and to decrease the disparities among population at risk of death and complications from pregnancy.


(2) ActivitiesFor the purpose described in paragraph (1), the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may carry out the following activities:(A) The Secretary may establish and implement a national surveillance program to identify and promote the investigation of deaths and severe complications that occur during pregnancy.

(B) The Secretary may expand the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System to provide surveillance and collect data in each State.

(C) The Secretary may expand the Maternal and Child Health Epidemiology Program to provide technical support, financial assistance, or the time-limited assignment of senior epidemiologists to maternal and child health programs in each State.



(b) Prevention research(1) PurposeThe purpose of this subsection is to provide the Secretary with the authority to further expand research concerning risk factors, prevention strategies, and the roles of the family, health care providers and the community in safe motherhood.


(2) ResearchThe Secretary may carry out activities to expand research relating to—(A) encouraging preconception counseling, especially for at risk populations such as diabetics;

(B) the identification of critical components of prenatal delivery and postpartum care;

(C) the identification of outreach and support services, such as folic acid education, that are available for pregnant women;

(D) the identification of women who are at high risk for complications;

(E) preventing preterm delivery;

(F) preventing urinary tract infections;

(G) preventing unnecessary caesarean sections;

(H) an examination of the higher rates of maternal mortality among African American women;

(I) an examination of the relationship between domestic violence and maternal complications and mortality;

(J) preventing and reducing adverse health consequences that may result from smoking, alcohol and illegal drug use before, during and after pregnancy;

(K) preventing infections that cause maternal and infant complications; and

(L) other areas determined appropriate by the Secretary.



(c) Prevention programs(1) In generalThe Secretary may carry out activities to promote safe motherhood, including—(A) public education campaigns on healthy pregnancies and the building of partnerships with outside organizations concerned about safe motherhood;

(B) education programs for physicians, nurses and other health care providers; and

(C) activities to promote community support services for pregnant women.



(d) Authorization of appropriationsFor the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 317K, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. A, title IX, § 901, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1125.)
