“Section 178“(a) The Federal agencies of the Government of the United States that provide services and related programs in the Republic of the Marshall Islands pursuant to Title Two are authorized to settle and pay tort claims arising in the Republic of the Marshall Islands from the activities of such agencies or from the acts or omissions of the employees of such agencies. Except as provided in section 178(b), the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 2672 and 31 U.S.C. 1304 shall apply exclusively to such administrative settlements and payments.

“(b) Claims under section 178(a) that cannot be settled under section 178(a) shall be disposed of exclusively in accordance with Article II of Title Four. Arbitration awards rendered pursuant to this subsection shall be paid out of funds under 31 U.S.C. 1304.

“(c) The Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall, in the separate agreement referred to in section 231, provide for:“(1) the administrative settlement of claims referred to in section 178(a), including designation of local agents in each State of the Republic of the Marshall Islands; such agents to be empowered to accept, investigate and settle such claims, in a timely manner, as provided in such separate agreements; and

“(2) arbitration, referred to in section 178(b), in a timely manner, at a site convenient to the claimant, in the event a claim is not otherwise settled pursuant to section 178(a).


“(d) The provisions of section 174(d) shall not apply to claims covered by this section.

“(e) Except as otherwise explicitly provided by law of the United States, this Compact, as amended, or its related agreements, neither the Government of the United States, its instrumentalities, nor any person acting on behalf of the Government of the United States, shall be named a party in any action based on, or arising out of, the activity or activities of a recipient of any grant or other assistance provided by the Government of the United States (or the activity or activities of the recipient’s agency or any other person or entity acting on behalf of the recipient).

