§ 7628. Demonstration grant program for local governments(a) Grant program(1) In generalThe Administrator shall establish a demonstration program under which the Administrator shall provide competitive grants to assist local governments (such as municipalities and counties), with respect to local government buildings—(A) to deploy cost-effective technologies and practices; and

(B) to achieve operational cost savings, through the application of cost-effective technologies and practices, as verified by the Administrator.


(2) Cost sharing(A) In generalThe Federal share of the cost of an activity carried out using a grant provided under this section shall be 40 percent.


(B) Waiver of non-Federal shareThe Administrator may waive up to 100 percent of the local share of the cost of any grant under this section should the Administrator determine that the community is economically distressed, pursuant to objective economic criteria established by the Administrator in published guidelines.



(3) Maximum amountThe amount of a grant provided under this subsection shall not exceed $1,000,000.



(b) Guidelines(1) In generalNot later than 1 year after December 19, 2007, the Administrator shall issue guidelines to implement the grant program established under subsection (a).


(2) RequirementsThe guidelines under paragraph (1) shall establish—(A) standards for monitoring and verification of operational cost savings through the application of cost-effective technologies and practices reported by grantees under this section;

(B) standards for grantees to implement training programs, and to provide technical assistance and education, relating to the retrofit of buildings using cost-effective technologies and practices; and

(C) a requirement that each local government that receives a grant under this section shall achieve facility-wide cost savings, through renovation of existing local government buildings using cost-effective technologies and practices, of at least 40 percent as compared to the baseline operational costs of the buildings before the renovation (as calculated assuming a 3-year, weather-normalized average).



(c) Compliance with State and local lawNothing in this section or any program carried out using a grant provided under this section supersedes or otherwise affects any State or local law, to the extent that the State or local law contains a requirement that is more stringent than the relevant requirement of this section.


(d) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2012.


(e) Reports(1) In generalThe Administrator shall provide annual reports to Congress on cost savings achieved and actions taken and recommendations made under this section, and any recommendations for further action.


(2) Final reportThe Administrator shall issue a final report at the conclusion of the program, including findings, a summary of total cost savings achieved, and recommendations for further action.



(f) TerminationThe program under this section shall terminate on September 30, 2012.


(g) DefinitionsIn this section, the terms “cost-effective technologies and practices” and “operating 11 So in original. Probably should be “operational”. cost savings” shall have the meanings defined in section 17061 of this title.


(July 14, 1955, ch. 360, title III, § 329, as added Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 493, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1652.)

Effective DateSection effective on the date that is 1 day after Dec. 19, 2007, see section 1601 of Pub. L. 110–140, set out as a note under section 1824 of Title 2, The Congress.


