§ 254c–15. Rural emergency medical service training and equipment assistance program(a) GrantsThe Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration (referred to in this section as the “Secretary”) shall award grants to eligible entities to enable such entities to provide for improved emergency medical services in rural areas.


(b) EligibilityTo be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall—(1) be—(A) a State emergency medical services office;

(B) a State emergency medical services association;

(C) a State office of rural health;

(D) a local government entity;

(E) a State or local ambulance provider; or

(F) any other entity determined appropriate by the Secretary; and


(2) prepare and submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, that includes—(A) a description of the activities to be carried out under the grant; and

(B) an assurance that the eligible entity will comply with the matching requirement of subsection (e) of this section.



(c) Use of fundsAn entity shall use amounts received under a grant made under subsection (a) of this section, either directly or through grants to emergency medical service squads that are located in, or that serve residents of, a nonmetropolitan statistical area, an area designated as a rural area by any law or regulation of a State, or a rural census tract of a metropolitan statistical area (as determined under the most recent Goldsmith Modification, originally published in a notice of availability of funds in the Federal Register on February 27, 1992, 57 Fed. Reg. 6725), to—(1) recruit emergency medical service personnel;

(2) recruit volunteer emergency medical service personnel;

(3) train emergency medical service personnel in emergency response, injury prevention, safety awareness, and other topics relevant to the delivery of emergency medical services;

(4) fund specific training to meet Federal or State certification requirements;

(5) develop new ways to educate emergency health care providers through the use of technology-enhanced educational methods (such as distance learning);

(6) acquire emergency medical services equipment, including cardiac defibrillators;

(7) acquire personal protective equipment for emergency medical services personnel as required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration; and

(8) educate the public concerning cardiopulmonary resuscitation, first aid, injury prevention, safety awareness, illness prevention, and other related emergency preparedness topics.


(d) PreferenceIn awarding grants under this section the Secretary shall give preference to—(1) applications that reflect a collaborative effort by 2 or more of the entities described in subparagraphs (A) through (F) of subsection (b)(1) of this section; and

(2) applications submitted by entities that intend to use amounts provided under the grant to fund activities described in any of paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (c) of this section.


(e) Matching requirementThe Secretary may not award a grant under this section to an entity unless the entity agrees that the entity will make available (directly or through contributions from other public or private entities) non-Federal contributions toward the activities to be carried out under the grant in an amount equal to 25 percent of the amount received under the grant.


(f) Emergency medical servicesIn this section, the term “emergency medical services”—(1) means resources used by a qualified public or private nonprofit entity, or by any other entity recognized as qualified by the State involved, to deliver medical care outside of a medical facility under emergency conditions that occur—(A) as a result of the condition of the patient; or

(B) as a result of a natural disaster or similar situation; and


(2) includes services delivered by an emergency medical services provider (either compensated or volunteer) or other provider recognized by the State involved that is licensed or certified by the State as an emergency medical technician or its equivalent (as determined by the State), a registered nurse, a physician assistant, or a physician that provides services similar to services provided by such an emergency medical services provider.


(g) Authorization of appropriations(1) In generalThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2002 through 2006.


(2) Administrative costsThe Secretary may use not more than 10 percent of the amount appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year for the administrative expenses of carrying out this section.



(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 330J, as added Pub. L. 107–251, title II, § 221, Oct. 26, 2002, 116 Stat. 1638.)
