“Section 161“The Governments of the United States, the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia declare that it is their policy to promote efforts to prevent or eliminate damage to the environment and biosphere and to enrich understanding of the natural resources of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia. In order to carry out this policy, the Government of the United States and the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia agree to the following mutual and reciprocal undertakings.“(a) The Government of the United States:“(1) shall continue to apply the environmental controls in effect on the day preceding the effective date of this Compact to those of its continuing activities subject to Section 161(a)(2), unless and until those controls are modified under Sections 161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4);

“(2) shall apply the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 83 Stat. 852, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., to its activities under the Compact and its related agreements as if the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia were the United States;

“(3) shall comply also, in the conduct of any activity requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement under Section 161(a)(2), with standards substantively similar to those required by the following laws of the United States, taking into account the particular environments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia: the Endangered Species Act of 1973, 87 Stat. 884, 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.; the Clean Air Act, 77 Stat. 392, 42 U.S.C. Supp. 7401 et seq.; the Clean Water Act (Federal Water Pollution Control Act), 86 Stat. 896, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.; the Ocean Dumping Act (Title I of the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972), 86 Stat. 1053, 33 U.S.C. 1411 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, 90 Stat. 2003, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.; the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 90 Stat. 2796, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.; and such other environmental protection laws of the United States as may be mutually agreed from time to time with the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia; and

“(4) shall develop, prior to conducting any activity requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement under Section 161(a)(2), appropriate mechanisms, including regulations or other judicially reviewable standards and procedures, to regulate its activities governed by Section 161(a)(3) in the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia in a manner appropriate to the special governmental relationship set forth in this Compact. The agencies of the Government of the United States designated by law to administer the laws set forth in Section 161(a)(3) shall participate as appropriate in the development of any regulation, standard or procedure under this Section, and the Government of the United States shall provide the affected Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia with the opportunity to comment during such development.


“(b) The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia shall develop standards and procedures to protect their environments. As a reciprocal obligation to the undertakings of the Government of the United States under this Article, the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, taking into account their particular environments, shall develop standards for environmental protection substantively similar to those required of the Government of the United States by Section 161(a)(3) prior to their conducting activities in the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, respectively, substantively equivalent to activities conducted there by the Government of the United States and, as a further reciprocal obligation, shall enforce those standards.

“(c) Section 161(a), including any standard or procedure applicable thereunder, and Section 161(b) may be modified or superseded in whole or in part by agreement of the Government of the United States and the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia.

“(d) In the event that an Environmental Impact Statement is no longer required under the laws of the United States for major federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, the regulatory regime established under Sections 161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4) shall continue to apply to such activities of the Government of the United States until amended by mutual agreement.

“(e) The President of the United States may exempt any of the activities of the Government of the United States under this Compact and its related agreements from any environmental standard or procedure which may be applicable under Sections 161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4) if the President determines it to be in the paramount interest of the Government of the United States to do so, consistent with Title Three of this Compact and the obligations of the Government of the United States under international law. Prior to any decision pursuant to this subsection, the views of the affected Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia shall be sought and considered to the extent practicable. If the President grants such an exemption, to the extent practicable, a report with his reasons for granting such exemption shall be given promptly to the affected Government.

“(f) The laws of the United States referred to in Section 161(a)(3) shall apply to the activities of the Government of the United States under this Compact and its related agreements only to the extent provided for in this Section.

