§ 300hh–10a. National Advisory Committee on Children and Disasters(a) EstablishmentThe Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall establish an advisory committee to be known as the “National Advisory Committee on Children and Disasters” (referred to in this section as the “Advisory Committee”).


(b) DutiesThe Advisory Committee shall—(1) provide advice and consultation with respect to the activities carried out pursuant to section 300hh–16 of this title, as applicable and appropriate;

(2) evaluate and provide input with respect to the medical and public health needs of children as they relate to preparation for, response to, and recovery from all-hazards emergencies; and

(3) provide advice and consultation with respect to State emergency preparedness and response activities and children, including related drills and exercises pursuant to the preparedness goals under section 300hh–1(b) of this title.


(c) Additional dutiesThe Advisory Committee may provide advice and recommendations to the Secretary with respect to children and the medical and public health grants and cooperative agreements as applicable to preparedness and response activities authorized under this subchapter and subchapter II.


(d) Membership(1) In generalThe Secretary, in consultation with such other Secretaries as may be appropriate, shall appoint not to exceed 15 members to the Advisory Committee. In appointing such members, the Secretary shall ensure that the total membership of the Advisory Committee is an odd number.


(2) Required membersThe Secretary, in consultation with such other Secretaries as may be appropriate, may appoint to the Advisory Committee under paragraph (1) such individuals as may be appropriate to perform the duties described in subsections (b) and (c), which may include—(A) the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response;

(B) the Director of the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority;

(C) the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;

(D) the Commissioner of Food and Drugs;

(E) the Director of the National Institutes of Health;

(F) the Assistant Secretary of the Administration for Children and Families;

(G) the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency;

(H) at least two non-Federal health care professionals with expertise in pediatric medical disaster planning, preparedness, response, or recovery;

(I) at least two representatives from State, local, territorial, or tribal agencies with expertise in pediatric disaster planning, preparedness, response, or recovery; and

(J) representatives from such Federal agencies (such as the Department of Education and the Department of Homeland Security) as determined necessary to fulfill the duties of the Advisory Committee, as established under subsections (b) and (c).



(e) MeetingsThe Advisory Committee shall meet not less than biannually.


(f) SunsetThe Advisory Committee shall terminate on September 30, 2018.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XXVIII, § 2811A, as added Pub. L. 113–5, title I, § 103, Mar. 13, 2013, 127 Stat. 168.)
