§ 7924. Reports to Congress(a) Information; consultations; separate official views; partial report concerning uranium mill tailings provisionsBeginning on January 1, 1980, and each year thereafter until January 1, 1986, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress with respect to the status of the actions required to be taken by the Secretary, the Commission, the Secretary of the Interior, the Administrator, and the States and Indian tribes under this chapter and any amendments to other laws made by this Act. Each report shall—(1) include data on the actual and estimated costs of the program authorized by this subchapter;

(2) describe the extent of participation by the States and Indian tribes in this program;

(3) evaluate the effectiveness of remedial actions, and describe any problems associated with the performance of such actions; and

(4) contain such other information as may be appropriate.


Such report shall be prepared in consultation with the Commission, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Administrator and shall contain their separate views, comments, and recommendations, if any. The Commission shall submit to the Secretary and Congress such portion of the report under this subsection as relates to the authorities of the Commission under title II of this Act.

(b) Identification of sites; Federal agency jurisdiction; contents; duplication prohibition; use and cooperation respecting other Federal agency informationNot later than July 1, 1979, the Secretary shall provide a report to the Congress which identifies all sites located on public or acquired lands of the United States containing residual radioactive materials and other raidoactive 11 So in original. Probably should be “radioactive”. waste (other than waste resulting from the production of electric energy) and specifies which Federal agency has jurisdiction over such sites. The report shall include the identity of property and other structures in the vicinity of such site that are contaminated or may be contaminated by such materials and the actions planned or taken to remove such materials. The report shall describe in what manner such sites are adequately stabilized and otherwise controlled to prevent radon diffusion from such sites into the environment and other environmental harm. If any site is not so stabilized or controlled, the report shall describe the remedial actions planned for such site and the time frame for performing such actions. In preparing the reports under this section, the Secretary shall avoid duplication of previous or ongoing studies and shall utilize all information available from other departments and agencies of the United States respecting the subject matter of such report. Such agencies shall cooperate with the Secretary in the preparation of such report and furnish such information as available to them and necessary for such report.


(c) Uranium mine wastes hazards elimination programNot later than January 1, 1980, the Administrator, in consultation with the Commission, shall provide a report to the Congress which identifies the location and potential health, safety, and environmental hazards of uranium mine wastes together with recommendations, if any, for a program to eliminate these hazards.


(d) Reports to Congressional committeesCopies of the reports required by this section to be submitted to the Congress shall be separately submitted to the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs and on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.


(e) Documentation of information; public availability; trade secrets and other disclosure exempt informationThe Commission, in cooperation with the Secretary, shall ensure that any relevant information, other than trade secrets and other proprietary information otherwise exempted from mandatory disclosure under any other provision of law, obtained from the conduct of each of the remedial actions authorized by this subchapter and the subsequent perpetual care of those residual radioactive materials is documented systematically, and made publicly available conveniently for use.


(Pub. L. 95–604, title I, § 114, Nov. 8, 1978, 92 Stat. 3032; H. Res. 549, Mar. 25, 1980.)


References in TextThis chapter and this Act, referred to in subsec. (a), mean Pub. L. 95–604, Nov. 8, 1978, 92 Stat. 3021, as amended, known as the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 7901 of this title and Tables.
Title II of this Act, referred to in subsec. (a), is title II (§§ 201–209) of Pub. L. 95–604, Nov. 8, 1978, 92 Stat. 3033, as amended, which enacted sections 2022, 2113, and 2114 of this title, amended sections 2014, 2021, 2111, and 2201 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 2014, 2021, and 2113 of this title. For complete classification of title II to the Code, see Tables.


Change of Name
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives on Jan. 5, 1993, by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress.
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce of the House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce immediately prior to noon on Jan. 3, 1981, by House Resolution No. 549, Ninety-sixth Congress, Mar. 25, 1980. Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives by section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2. Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.


