§ 1397h. Program for early detection of certain medical conditions related to environmental health hazards(a) Program establishmentThe Secretary shall establish a program in accordance with this section to make competitive grants to eligible entities specified in subsection (b) for the purpose of—(1) screening at-risk individuals (as defined in subsection (c)(1)) for environmental health conditions (as defined in subsection (c)(3)); and

(2) developing and disseminating public information and education concerning—(A) the availability of screening under the program under this section;

(B) the detection, prevention, and treatment of environmental health conditions; and

(C) the availability of Medicare benefits for certain individuals diagnosed with environmental health conditions under section 1395rr–1 of this title.



(b) Eligible entities(1) In generalFor purposes of this section, an eligible entity is an entity described in paragraph (2) which submits an application to the Secretary in such form and manner, and containing such information and assurances, as the Secretary determines appropriate.


(2) Types of eligible entitiesThe entities described in this paragraph are the following:(A) A hospital or community health center.

(B) A Federally qualified health center.

(C) A facility of the Indian Health Service.

(D) A National Cancer Institute-designated cancer center.

(E) An agency of any State or local government.

(F) A nonprofit organization.

(G) Any other entity the Secretary determines appropriate.



(c) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) At-risk individualThe term “at-risk individual” means an individual who—(A)(i) as demonstrated in such manner as the Secretary determines appropriate, has been present for an aggregate total of 6 months in the geographic area subject to an emergency declaration specified under paragraph (2), during a period ending—(I) not less than 10 years prior to the date of such individual’s application under subparagraph (B); and

(II) prior to the implementation of all the remedial and removal actions specified in the Record of Decision for Operating Unit 4 and the Record of Decision for Operating Unit 7; or


(ii) meets such other criteria as the Secretary determines appropriate considering the type of environmental health condition at issue; and


(B) has submitted an application (or has an application submitted on the individual’s behalf), to an eligible entity receiving a grant under this section, for screening under the program under this section.


(2) Emergency declarationThe term “emergency declaration” means a declaration of a public health emergency under section 9604(a) of this title.


(3) Environmental health conditionThe term “environmental health condition” means—(A) asbestosis, pleural thickening, or pleural plaques, as established by—(i) interpretation by a “B Reader” qualified physician of a plain chest x-ray or interpretation of a computed tomographic radiograph of the chest by a qualified physician, as determined by the Secretary; or

(ii) such other diagnostic standards as the Secretary specifies;


(B) mesothelioma, or malignancies of the lung, colon, rectum, larynx, stomach, esophagus, pharynx, or ovary, as established by—(i) pathologic examination of biopsy tissue;

(ii) cytology from bronchioalveolar lavage; or

(iii) such other diagnostic standards as the Secretary specifies; and


(C) any other medical condition which the Secretary determines is caused by exposure to a hazardous substance or pollutant or contaminant at a Superfund site to which an emergency declaration applies, based on such criteria and as established by such diagnostic standards as the Secretary specifies.


(4) Hazardous substance; pollutant; contaminantThe terms “hazardous substance”, “pollutant”, and “contaminant” have the meanings given those terms in section 9601 of this title.


(5) Superfund siteThe term “Superfund site” means a site included on the National Priorities List developed by the President in accordance with section 9605(a)(8)(B) of this title.



(d) Health coverage unaffectedNothing in this section shall be construed to affect any coverage obligation of a governmental or private health plan or program relating to an at-risk individual.


(e) Funding(1) In generalOut of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Secretary, to carry out the program under this section—(A) $23,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2010 through 2014; and

(B) $20,000,000 for each 5-fiscal year period thereafter.


(2) AvailabilityFunds appropriated under paragraph (1) shall remain available until expended.



(f) Nonapplication(1) In generalExcept as provided in paragraph (2), the preceding sections of this subchapter shall not apply to grants awarded under this section.


(2) Limitations on use of grantsSection 1397d(a) of this title shall apply to a grant awarded under this section to the same extent and in the same manner as such section applies to payments to States under this subchapter, except that paragraph (4) of such section shall not be construed to prohibit grantees from conducting screening for environmental health conditions as authorized under this section.



(Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title XX, § 2009, as added Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10323(b), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 957.)

Codification
Pub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10323(b), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 957, which directed amendment of title XX of act Aug. 14, 1935, by adding this section at the end, was executed by adding this section at the end of subtitle A of title XX of that Act, which is this division, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.


