§ 17111. Energy-intensive industries program(a) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Eligible entityThe term “eligible entity” means—(A) an energy-intensive industry;

(B) a national trade association representing an energy-intensive industry; or

(C) a person acting on behalf of 1 or more energy-intensive industries or sectors, as determined by the Secretary.


(2) Energy-intensive industryThe term “energy-intensive industry” means an industry that uses significant quantities of energy as part of its primary economic activities, including—(A) information technology, including data centers containing electrical equipment used in processing, storing, and transmitting digital information;

(B) consumer product manufacturing;

(C) food processing;

(D) materials manufacturers, including—(i) aluminum;

(ii) chemicals;

(iii) forest and paper products;

(iv) metal casting;

(v) glass;

(vi) petroleum refining;

(vii) mining; and

(viii) steel;


(E) other energy-intensive industries, as determined by the Secretary.


(3) FeedstockThe term “feedstock” means the raw material supplied for use in manufacturing, chemical, and biological processes.


(4) PartnershipThe term “partnership” means an energy efficiency partnership established under subsection (c)(1)(A).


(5) ProgramThe term “program” means the energy-intensive industries program established under subsection (b).



(b) Establishment of programThe Secretary shall establish a program under which the Secretary, in cooperation with energy-intensive industries and national industry trade associations representing the energy-intensive industries, shall support, research, develop, and promote the use of new materials processes, technologies, and techniques to optimize energy efficiency and the economic competitiveness of the United States’ industrial and commercial sectors.


(c) Partnerships(1) In generalAs part of the program, the Secretary shall establish energy efficiency partnerships between the Secretary and eligible entities to conduct research on, develop, and demonstrate new processes, technologies, and operating practices and techniques to significantly improve the energy efficiency of equipment and processes used by energy-intensive industries, including the conduct of activities to—(A) increase the energy efficiency of industrial processes and facilities;

(B) research, develop, and demonstrate advanced technologies capable of energy intensity reductions and increased environmental performance; and

(C) promote the use of the processes, technologies, and techniques described in subparagraphs (A) and (B).


(2) Eligible activitiesPartnership activities eligible for funding under this subsection include—(A) feedstock and recycling research, development, and demonstration activities to identify and promote—(i) opportunities for meeting industry feedstock requirements with more energy efficient and flexible sources of feedstock or energy supply;

(ii) strategies to develop and deploy technologies that improve the quality and quantity of feedstocks recovered from process and waste streams; and

(iii) other methods using recycling, reuse, and improved industrial materials;


(B) research to develop and demonstrate technologies and processes that utilize alternative energy sources to supply heat, power, and new feedstocks for energy-intensive industries;

(C) research to achieve energy efficiency in steam, power, control system, and process heat technologies, and in other manufacturing processes; and

(D) industrial and commercial energy efficiency and sustainability assessments to—(i) assist individual industrial and commercial sectors in developing tools, techniques, and methodologies to assess—(I) the unique processes and facilities of the sectors;

(II) the energy utilization requirements of the sectors; and

(III) the application of new, more energy efficient technologies; and


(ii) conduct energy savings assessments;


(E) the incorporation of technologies and innovations that would significantly improve the energy efficiency and utilization of energy-intensive commercial applications; and

(F) any other activities that the Secretary determines to be appropriate.


(3) Proposals(A) In generalTo be eligible for funding under this subsection, a partnership shall submit to the Secretary a proposal that describes the proposed research, development, or demonstration activity to be conducted by the partnership.


(B) ReviewAfter reviewing the scientific, technical, and commercial merit of a proposals 11 So in original. submitted under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall approve or disapprove the proposal.


(C) Competitive awardsThe provision of funding under this subsection shall be on a competitive basis.



(4) Cost-sharing requirementIn carrying out this section, the Secretary shall require cost sharing in accordance with section 16352 of this title.



(d) GrantsThe Secretary may award competitive grants for innovative technology research, development and demonstrations to universities, individual inventors, and small companies, based on energy savings potential, commercial viability, and technical merit.


(e) Institution of higher education-based industrial research and assessment centersThe Secretary shall provide funding to institution of higher education-based industrial research and assessment centers, whose purpose shall be—(1) to identify opportunities for optimizing energy efficiency and environmental performance;

(2) to promote applications of emerging concepts and technologies in small- and medium-sized manufacturers;

(3) to promote research and development for the use of alternative energy sources to supply heat, power, and new feedstocks for energy-intensive industries;

(4) to coordinate with appropriate Federal and State research offices, and provide a clearinghouse for industrial process and energy efficiency technical assistance resources; and

(5) to coordinate with State-accredited technical training centers and community colleges, while ensuring appropriate services to all regions of the United States.


(f) Authorization of appropriations(1) In generalThere are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section—(A) $184,000,000 for fiscal year 2008;

(B) $190,000,000 for fiscal year 2009;

(C) $196,000,000 for fiscal year 2010;

(D) $202,000,000 for fiscal year 2011;

(E) $208,000,000 for fiscal year 2012; and

(F) such sums as are necessary for fiscal year 2013 and each fiscal year thereafter.


(2) Partnership activitiesOf the amounts made available under paragraph (1), not less than 50 percent shall be used to pay the Federal share of partnership activities under subsection (c).


(3) Coordination and nonduplicationThe Secretary shall coordinate efforts under this section with other programs of the Department and other Federal agencies to avoid duplication of effort.



(Pub. L. 110–140, title IV, § 452, Dec. 19, 2007, 121 Stat. 1634.)
