§ 18002. Reinsurance for early retirees(a) Administration(1) In generalNot later than 90 days after March 23, 2010, the Secretary shall establish a temporary reinsurance program to provide reimbursement to participating employment-based plans for a portion of the cost of providing health insurance coverage to early retirees (and to the eligible spouses, surviving spouses, and dependents of such retirees) during the period beginning on the date on which such program is established and ending on January 1, 2014.


(2) ReferenceIn this section:(A) Health benefitsThe term “health benefits” means medical, surgical, hospital, prescription drug, and such other benefits as shall be determined by the Secretary, whether self-funded, or delivered through the purchase of insurance or otherwise.


(B) Employment-based planThe term “employment-based plan” means a group benefits plan providing health benefits that—(i) is—(I) maintained by one or more current or former employers (including without limitation any State or local government or political subdivision thereof or any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing), employee organization, a voluntary employees’ beneficiary association, or a committee or board of individuals appointed to administer such plan; or

(II) a multiemployer plan (as defined in section 1002(37) of title 29); and


(ii) provides health benefits to early retirees.


(C) Early retireesThe term “early retirees” means individuals who are age 55 and older but are not eligible for coverage under title XVIII of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.], and who are not active employees of an employer maintaining, or currently contributing to, the employment-based plan or of any employer that has made substantial contributions to fund such plan.




(b) Participation(1) Employment-based plan eligibilityA participating employment-based plan is an employment-based plan that—(A) meets the requirements of paragraph (2) with respect to health benefits provided under the plan; and

(B) submits to the Secretary an application for participation in the program, at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary shall require.


(2) Employment-based health benefitsAn employment-based plan meets the requirements of this paragraph if the plan—(A) implements programs and procedures to generate cost-savings with respect to participants with chronic and high-cost conditions;

(B) provides documentation of the actual cost of medical claims involved; and

(C) is certified by the Secretary.



(c) Payments(1) Submission of claims(A) In generalA participating employment-based plan shall submit claims for reimbursement to the Secretary which shall contain documentation of the actual costs of the items and services for which each claim is being submitted.


(B) Basis for claimsClaims submitted under subparagraph (A) shall be based on the actual amount expended by the participating employment-based plan involved within the plan year for the health benefits provided to an early retiree or the spouse, surviving spouse, or dependent of such retiree. In determining the amount of a claim for purposes of this subsection, the participating employment-based plan shall take into account any negotiated price concessions (such as discounts, direct or indirect subsidies, rebates, and direct or indirect remunerations) obtained by such plan with respect to such health benefit. For purposes of determining the amount of any such claim, the costs paid by the early retiree or the retiree’s spouse, surviving spouse, or dependent in the form of deductibles, co-payments, or co-insurance shall be included in the amounts paid by the participating employment-based plan.



(2) Program paymentsIf the Secretary determines that a participating employment-based plan has submitted a valid claim under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall reimburse such plan for 80 percent of that portion of the costs attributable to such claim that exceed $15,000, subject to the limits contained in paragraph (3).


(3) LimitTo be eligible for reimbursement under the program, a claim submitted by a participating employment-based plan shall not be less than $15,000 nor greater than $90,000. Such amounts shall be adjusted each fiscal year based on the percentage increase in the Medical Care Component of the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers (rounded to the nearest multiple of $1,000) for the year involved.


(4) Use of paymentsAmounts paid to a participating employment-based plan under this subsection shall be used to lower costs for the plan. Such payments may be used to reduce premium costs for an entity described in subsection (a)(2)(B)(i) or to reduce premium contributions, co-payments, deductibles, co-insurance, or other out-of-pocket costs for plan participants. Such payments shall not be used as general revenues for an entity described in subsection (a)(2)(B)(i). The Secretary shall develop a mechanism to monitor the appropriate use of such payments by such entities.


(5) Payments not treated as incomePayments received under this subsection shall not be included in determining the gross income of an entity described in subsection (a)(2)(B)(i) that is maintaining or currently contributing to a participating employment-based plan.


(6) AppealsThe Secretary shall establish—(A) an appeals process to permit participating employment-based plans to appeal a determination of the Secretary with respect to claims submitted under this section; and

(B) procedures to protect against fraud, waste, and abuse under the program.



(d) AuditsThe Secretary shall conduct annual audits of claims data submitted by participating employment-based plans under this section to ensure that such plans are in compliance with the requirements of this section.


(e) FundingThere is appropriated to the Secretary, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000,000 to carry out the program under this section. Such funds shall be available without fiscal year limitation.


(f) LimitationThe Secretary has the authority to stop taking applications for participation in the program based on the availability of funding under subsection (e).


(Pub. L. 111–148, title I, § 1102, title X, § 10102(a), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 143, 892.)


References in TextThe Social Security Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(C), is act Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620. Title XVIII of the Act is classified generally to subchapter XVIII (§ 1395 et seq.) of chapter 7 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1305 of this title and Tables.

Amendments2010—Subsec. (a)(2)(B). Pub. L. 111–148, § 10102(a)(1), substituted “group benefits plan providing health benefits” for “group health benefits plan” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (a)(2)(B)(i)(I). Pub. L. 111–148, § 10102(a)(2), inserted “or any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing” after “political subdivision thereof”.


