“Section 215 - Trust Fund“(a) The United States shall contribute annually for twenty years from the effective date of this Compact, as amended, in the amounts set forth in section 216 into a Trust Fund established in accordance with the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia Implementing Section 215 and Section 216 of the Compact, as Amended, Regarding a Trust Fund (‘Trust Fund Agreement’). Upon termination of the annual financial assistance under section 211, the proceeds of the fund shall thereafter be used for the purposes described in section 211 or as otherwise mutually agreed.

“(b) The United States contribution into the Trust Fund described in subsection (a) of this section is conditioned on the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia contributing to the Trust Fund at least $30 million, prior to September 30, 2004. Any funds received by the Federated States of Micronesia under section 111(d) of Public Law 99–239 (January 14, 1986), or successor provisions, would be contributed to the Trust Fund as a Federated States of Micronesia contribution.

“(c) The terms regarding the investment and management of funds and use of the income of the Trust Fund shall be set forth in the separate Trust Fund Agreement described in subsection (a) of this section. Funds derived from United States investment shall not be subject to Federal or state taxes in the United States or the Federated States of Micronesia. The Trust Fund Agreement shall also provide for annual reports to the Government of the United States and to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia. The Trust Fund Agreement shall provide for appropriate distributions of trust fund proceeds to the Federated States of Micronesia and for appropriate remedies for the failure of the Federated States of Micronesia to use income of the Trust Fund for the annual grant purposes set forth in section 211. These remedies may include the return to the United States of the present market value of its contributions to the Trust Fund and the present market value of any undistributed income on the contributions of the United States. If this Compact, as amended, is terminated, the provisions of sections 451 through 453 of this Compact, as amended, shall govern treatment of any U.S. contributions to the Trust Fund or accrued interest thereon. [As amended Pub. L. 110–229, title VIII, § 806(b)(1)(E), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 872.]

