§ 46111. Certificate actions in response to a security threat(a) Orders.—The Administrator of Federal Aviation Administration shall issue an order amending, modifying, suspending, or revoking any part of a certificate issued under this title if the Administrator is notified by the Under Secretary for Border and Transportation Security of the Department of Homeland Security that the holder of the certificate poses, or is suspected of posing, a risk of air piracy or terrorism or a threat to airline or passenger safety. If requested by the Under Secretary, the order shall be effective immediately.

(b) Hearings for Citizens.—An individual who is a citizen of the United States who is adversely affected by an order of the Administrator under subsection (a) is entitled to a hearing on the record.

(c) Hearings.—When conducting a hearing under this section, the administrative law judge shall not be bound by findings of fact or interpretations of laws and regulations of the Administrator or the Under Secretary.

(d) Appeals.—An appeal from a decision of an administrative law judge as the result of a hearing under subsection (b) shall be made to the Transportation Security Oversight Board established by section 115. The Board shall establish a panel to review the decision. The members of this panel (1) shall not be employees of the Transportation Security Administration, (2) shall have the level of security clearance needed to review the determination made under this section, and (3) shall be given access to all relevant documents that support that determination. The panel may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision.

(e) Review.—A person substantially affected by an action of a panel under subsection (d), or the Under Secretary when the Under Secretary decides that the action of the panel under this section will have a significant adverse impact on carrying out this part, may obtain review of the order under section 46110. The Under Secretary and the Administrator shall be made a party to the review proceedings. Findings of fact of the panel are conclusive if supported by substantial evidence.

(f) Explanation of Decisions.—An individual who commences an appeal under this section shall receive a written explanation of the basis for the determination or decision and all relevant documents that support that determination to the maximum extent that the national security interests of the United States and other applicable laws permit.

(g) Classified Evidence.—(1) In general.—The Under Secretary, in consultation with the Administrator and the Director of Central Intelligence, shall issue regulations to establish procedures by which the Under Secretary, as part of a hearing conducted under this section, may provide an unclassified summary of classified evidence upon which the order of the Administrator was based to the individual adversely affected by the order.

(2) Review of classified evidence by administrative law judge.—(A) Review.—As part of a hearing conducted under this section, if the order of the Administrator issued under subsection (a) is based on classified information (as defined in section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.),11 So in original. Probably should be “App.)),”. such information may be submitted by the Under Secretary to the reviewing administrative law judge, pursuant to appropriate security procedures, and shall be reviewed by the administrative law judge ex parte and in camera.

(B) Security clearances.—Pursuant to existing procedures and requirements, the Under Secretary shall, in coordination, as necessary, with the heads of other affected departments or agencies, ensure that administrative law judges reviewing orders of the Administrator under this section possess security clearances appropriate for their work under this section.


(3) Unclassified summaries of classified evidence.—As part of a hearing conducted under this section and upon the request of the individual adversely affected by an order of the Administrator under subsection (a), the Under Secretary shall provide to the individual and reviewing administrative law judge, consistent with the procedures established under paragraph (1), an unclassified summary of any classified information upon which the order of the Administrator is based.


(Added Pub. L. 108–176, title VI, § 601(a), Dec. 12, 2003, 117 Stat. 2561.)


References in TextSection 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act, referred to in subsec. (g)(2)(A), is section 1(a) of Pub. L. 96–456, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

Effective DateSection applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 2003, except as otherwise specifically provided, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–176, set out as an Effective Date of 2003 Amendment note under section 106 of this title.

Deemed References to Chapters 509 and 511 of Title 51General references to “this title” deemed to refer also to chapters 509 and 511 of Title 51, National and Commercial Space Programs, see section 4(d)(8) of Pub. L. 111–314, set out as a note under section 101 of this title.


