§ 3145. Supplementary grants(a) Definition of designated Federal grant programIn this section, the term “designated Federal grant program” means any Federal grant program that—(1) provides assistance in the construction or equipping of public works, public service, or development facilities;

(2) the Secretary designates as eligible for an allocation of funds under this section; and

(3) assists projects that are—(A) eligible for assistance under this subchapter; and

(B) consistent with a comprehensive economic development strategy.



(b) Supplementary grantsSubject to subsection (c) of this section, in order to assist eligible recipients in taking advantage of designated Federal grant programs, on the application of an eligible recipient, the Secretary may make a supplementary grant for a project for which the recipient is eligible but for which the recipient cannot provide the required non-Federal share because of the economic situation of the recipient.


(c) Requirements applicable to supplementary grants(1) Amount of supplementary grantsThe share of the project cost supported by a supplementary grant under this section may not exceed the applicable Federal share under section 3144 of this title.


(2) Form of supplementary grantsThe Secretary shall make supplementary grants by—(A) the payment of funds made available under this chapter to the heads of the Federal agencies responsible for carrying out the applicable Federal programs; or

(B) the award of funds under this chapter, which will be combined with funds transferred from other Federal agencies in projects administered by the Secretary.


(3) Federal share limitations specified in other lawsNotwithstanding any requirement as to the amount or source of non-Federal funds that may be applicable to a Federal program, funds provided under this section may be used to increase the Federal share for specific projects under the program that are carried out in areas described in section 3161(a) of this title above the Federal share of the cost of the project authorized by the law governing the program.



(Pub. L. 89–136, title II, § 205, as added Pub. L. 105–393, title I, § 102(a), Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3603; amended Pub. L. 108–373, title II, § 203, Oct. 27, 2004, 118 Stat. 1760.)

Amendments2004—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 108–373, § 203(a), added subsec. (b) and struck out heading and text of former subsec. (b). Text read as follows:
“(1) In general.—On the application of an eligible recipient, the Secretary may make a supplementary grant for a project for which the eligible recipient is eligible but, because of the eligible recipient’s economic situation, for which the eligible recipient cannot provide the required non-Federal share.
“(2) Purposes of grants.—Supplementary grants under paragraph (1) may be made for purposes that shall include enabling eligible recipients to use—
“(A) designated Federal grant programs; and
“(B) direct grants authorized under this subchapter.”
Subsec. (c)(1), (2). Pub. L. 108–373, § 203(b)(1), added pars. (1) and (2) and struck out former pars. (1) and (2), which read as follows:
“(1) Amount of supplementary grants.—Subject to paragraph (4), the amount of a supplementary grant under this subchapter for a project shall not exceed the applicable percentage of the cost of the project established by regulations promulgated by the Secretary, except that the non-Federal share of the cost of a project (including assumptions of debt) shall not be less than 20 percent.
“(2) Form of supplementary grants.—In accordance with such regulations as the Secretary may promulgate, the Secretary shall make supplementary grants by increasing the amounts of grants authorized under this subchapter or by the payment of funds made available under this chapter to the heads of the Federal agencies responsible for carrying out the applicable Federal programs.”
Subsec. (c)(4). Pub. L. 108–373, § 203(b)(2), struck out heading and text of par. (4). Text read as follows:
“(A) Indian tribes.—In the case of a grant to an Indian tribe, the Secretary may reduce the non-Federal share below the percentage specified in paragraph (1) or may waive the non-Federal share.
“(B) Certain States, political subdivisions, and nonprofit organizations.—In the case of a grant to a State, or a political subdivision of a State, that the Secretary determines has exhausted its effective taxing and borrowing capacity, or in the case of a grant to a nonprofit organization that the Secretary determines has exhausted its effective borrowing capacity, the Secretary may reduce the non-Federal share below the percentage specified in paragraph (1).”


