§ 290bb–25c. Services for individuals with fetal alcohol syndrome(a) In generalThe Secretary shall make awards of grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts to public and nonprofit private entities, including Indian tribes and tribal organizations, to provide services to individuals diagnosed with fetal alcohol syndrome or alcohol-related birth defects.


(b) Use of fundsAn award under subsection (a) of this section may, subject to subsection (d) of this section, be used to—(1) screen and test individuals to determine the type and level of services needed;

(2) develop a comprehensive plan for providing services to the individual;

(3) provide mental health counseling;

(4) provide substance abuse prevention services and treatment, if needed;

(5) coordinate services with other social programs including social services, justice system, educational services, health services, mental health and substance abuse services, financial assistance programs, vocational services and housing assistance programs;

(6) provide vocational services;

(7) provide health counseling;

(8) provide housing assistance;

(9) parenting 11 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “provide”. skills training;

(10) overall 1 case management;

(11) supportive 1 services for families of individuals with Fetal Alcohol Syndrome; and

(12) provide other services and programs, to the extent authorized by the Secretary after consideration of recommendations made by the National Task Force on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome.


(c) RequirementsTo be eligible to receive an award under subsection (a) of this section, an applicant shall—(1) demonstrate that the program will be part of a coordinated, comprehensive system of care for such individuals;

(2) demonstrate an established communication with other social programs in the community including social services, justice system, financial assistance programs, health services, educational services, mental health and substance abuse services, vocational services and housing assistance services;

(3) show a history of working with individuals with fetal alcohol syndrome or alcohol-related birth defects;

(4) provide assurance that the services will be provided in a culturally and linguistically appropriate manner; and

(5) provide assurance that at the end of the 5-year award period, other mechanisms will be identified to meet the needs of the individuals and families served under such award.


(d) Relationship to payments under other programsAn award may be made under subsection (a) of this section only if the applicant involved agrees that the award will not be expended to pay the expenses of providing any service under this section to an individual to the extent that payment has been made, or can reasonably be expected to be made, with respect to such expenses—(1) under any State compensation program, under an insurance policy, or under any Federal or State health benefits program; or

(2) by an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis.


(e) Duration of awardsWith respect to an award under subsection (a) of this section, the period during which payments under such award are made to the recipient may not exceed 5 years.


(f) EvaluationThe Secretary shall evaluate each project carried out under subsection (a) of this section and shall disseminate the findings with respect to each such evaluation to appropriate public and private entities.


(g) Funding(1) Authorization of appropriationsFor the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2002 and 2003.


(2) AllocationOf the amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, not less than $300,000 shall, for purposes relating to fetal alcohol syndrome and alcohol-related birth defects, be made available for collaborative, coordinated interagency efforts with the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, the Health Resources and Services Administration, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Department of Education, and the Department of Justice.



(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 519C, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXI, § 3110, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1183; amended Pub. L. 110–154, § 1(b)(9), Dec. 21, 2007, 121 Stat. 1827.)

Amendments2007—Subsec. (g)(2). Pub. L. 110–154, which directed substitution of “Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development” for “National Institute of Child Health and Human Development”, was executed by making the substitution for “National Institute on Child Health and Human Development” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.


