§ 300hh–2. Enhancing medical surge capacity(a) Study of enhancing medical surge capacityAs part of the joint review described in section 300hh–11(b) of this title, the Secretary shall evaluate the benefits and feasibility of improving the capacity of the Department of Health and Human Services to provide additional medical surge capacity to local communities in the event of a public health emergency. Such study shall include an assessment of the need for and feasibility of improving surge capacity through—(1) acquisition and operation of mobile medical assets by the Secretary to be deployed, on a contingency basis, to a community in the event of a public health emergency;

(2) integrating the practice of telemedicine within the National Disaster Medical System; and

(3) other strategies to improve such capacity as determined appropriate by the Secretary.


(b) Authority to acquire and operate mobile medical assetsIn addition to any other authority to acquire, deploy, and operate mobile medical assets, the Secretary may acquire, deploy, and operate mobile medical assets if, taking into consideration the evaluation conducted under subsection (a), such acquisition, deployment, and operation is determined to be beneficial and feasible in improving the capacity of the Department of Health and Human Services to provide additional medical surge capacity to local communities in the event of a public health emergency.


(c) Using Federal facilities to enhance medical surge capacity(1) AnalysisThe Secretary shall conduct an analysis of whether there are Federal facilities which, in the event of a public health emergency, could practicably be used as facilities in which to provide health care.


(2) Memoranda of understandingIf, based on the analysis conducted under paragraph (1), the Secretary determines that there are Federal facilities which, in the event of a public health emergency, could be used as facilities in which to provide health care, the Secretary shall, with respect to each such facility, seek to conclude a memorandum of understanding with the head of the Department or agency that operates such facility that permits the use of such facility to provide health care in the event of a public health emergency.



(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XXVIII, § 2803, as added Pub. L. 109–417, title III, § 302(a), Dec. 19, 2006, 120 Stat. 2855.)
