§ 290aa–5a. Alcohol and drug prevention or treatment services for Indians and Native Alaskans(a) In generalThe Secretary shall award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements to public and private nonprofit entities, including Native Alaskan entities and Indian tribes and tribal organizations, for the purpose of providing alcohol and drug prevention or treatment services for Indians and Native Alaskans.


(b) PriorityIn awarding grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall give priority to applicants that—(1) propose to provide alcohol and drug prevention or treatment services on reservations;

(2) propose to employ culturally-appropriate approaches, as determined by the Secretary, in providing such services; and

(3) have provided prevention or treatment services to Native Alaskan entities and Indian tribes and tribal organizations for at least 1 year prior to applying for a grant under this section.


(c) DurationThe Secretary shall award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements under subsection (a) of this section for a period not to exceed 5 years.


(d) ApplicationAn entity desiring a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under subsection (a) of this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(e) EvaluationAn entity that receives a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under subsection (a) of this section shall submit, in the application for such grant, a plan for the evaluation of any project undertaken with funds provided under this section. Such entity shall provide the Secretary with periodic evaluations of the progress of such project and such evaluation at the completion of such project as the Secretary determines to be appropriate. The final evaluation submitted by such entity shall include a recommendation as to whether such project shall continue.


(f) ReportNot later than 3 years after October 17, 2000, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall prepare and submit, to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, a report describing the services provided pursuant to this section.


(g) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2002 and 2003.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 506A, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXIII, § 3306, Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1215.)
