§ 5412. Noncompliance with standards or defective nature of manufactured home; administrative or judicial determination; repurchase by manufacturer or repair by distributor or retailer; reimbursement of expenses, etc., by manufacturer; injunctive relief against manufacturer for failure to comply; jurisdiction and venue; damages; period of limitation(a) If the Secretary or a court of appropriate jurisdiction determines that any manufactured home does not conform to applicable Federal manufactured home construction and safety standards, or that it contains a defect which constitutes an imminent safety hazard, after the sale of such manufactured home by a manufacturer to a distributor or a retailer and prior to the sale of such manufactured home by such distributor or retailer to a purchaser—(1) the manufacturer shall immediately repurchase such manufactured home from such distributor or retailer at the price paid by such distributor or retailer, plus all transportation charges involved and a reasonable reimbursement of not less than 1 per centum per month of such price paid prorated from the date of receipt by certified mail of notice of such nonconformance to the date of repurchase by the manufacturer; or

(2) the manufacturer, at his own expense, shall immediately furnish the purchasing distributor or retailer the required conforming part or parts or equipment for installation by the distributor or retailer on or in such manufactured home, and for the installation involved the manufacturer shall reimburse such distributor or retailer for the reasonable value of such installation plus a reasonable reimbursement of not less than 1 per centum per month of the manufacturer’s or distributor’s selling price prorated from the date of receipt by certified mail of notice of such nonconformance to the date such vehicle is brought into conformance with applicable Federal standards, so long as the distributor or retailer proceeds with reasonable diligence with the installation after the required part or equipment is received.


The value of such reasonable reimbursements as specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection shall be fixed by mutual agreement of the parties, or, failing such agreement, by the court pursuant to the provisions of subsection (b) of this section.

(b) If any manufacturer fails to comply with the requirements of subsection (a) of this section, then the distributor or retailer, as the case may be, to whom such manufactured home has been sold may bring an action seeking a court injunction compelling compliance with such requirements on the part of such manufacturer. Such action may be brought in any district court in the United States in the district in which such manufacturer resides, or is found, or has an agent, without regard to the amount in controversy, and the person bringing the action shall also be entitled to recover any damage sustained by him, as well as all court costs plus reasonable attorneys’ fees. Any action brought pursuant to this section shall be forever barred unless commenced within three years after the cause of action shall have accrued.

(Pub. L. 93–383, title VI, § 613, Aug. 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 706; Pub. L. 96–399, title III, § 308(c)(4), Oct. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 1641; Pub. L. 106–569, title VI, § 603(b)(1), Dec. 27, 2000, 114 Stat. 2999.)

Amendments2000—Subsecs. (a), (b). Pub. L. 106–569 substituted “retailer” for “dealer” wherever appearing.
1980—Subsecs. (a), (b). Pub. L. 96–399 substituted “manufactured home” for “mobile home” wherever appearing.

Effective Date of 2000 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 106–569 effective Dec. 27, 2000, except that amendment has no effect on any order or interpretative bulletin issued under this chapter and published as a proposed rule pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553 on or before Dec. 27, 2000, see section 612 of Pub. L. 106–569, set out as a note under section 5401 of this title.


