§ 280l. Technical assistance for employer-based wellness programs
In order to expand the utilization of evidence-based prevention and health promotion approaches in the workplace, the Director shall—(1) provide employers (including small, medium, and large employers, as determined by the Director) with technical assistance, consultation, tools, and other resources in evaluating such employers’ employer-based wellness programs, including—(A) measuring the participation and methods to increase participation of employees in such programs;

(B) developing standardized measures that assess policy, environmental and systems changes necessary to have a positive health impact on employees’ health behaviors, health outcomes, and health care expenditures; and

(C) evaluating such programs as they relate to changes in the health status of employees, the absenteeism of employees, the productivity of employees, the rate of workplace injury, and the medical costs incurred by employees; and


(2) build evaluation capacity among workplace staff by training employers on how to evaluate employer-based wellness programs and ensuring evaluation resources, technical assistance, and consultation are available to workplace staff as needed through such mechanisms as web portals, call centers, or other means.

(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 399MM, as added and amended Pub. L. 111–148, title IV, § 4303, title X, § 10404, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 583, 975.)

Amendments2010—Par. (2). Pub. L. 111–148, § 10404, substituted “and ensuring” for “by ensuring”.

Grants for Small Businesses To Provide Comprehensive Workplace Wellness ProgramsPub. L. 111–148, title X, § 10408, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 977, provided that:
“(a) Establishment.—The Secretary shall award grants to eligible employers to provide their employees with access to comprehensive workplace wellness programs (as described under subsection (c)).

“(b) Scope.—“(1) Duration.—The grant program established under this section shall be conducted for a 5-year period.

“(2) Eligible employer.—The term ‘eligible employer’ means an employer (including a non-profit employer) that—“(A) employs less than 100 employees who work 25 hours or greater per week; and

“(B) does not provide a workplace wellness program as of the date of enactment of this Act [Mar. 23, 2010].



“(c) Comprehensive Workplace Wellness Programs.—“(1) Criteria.—The Secretary shall develop program criteria for comprehensive workplace wellness programs under this section that are based on and consistent with evidence-based research and best practices, including research and practices as provided in the Guide to Community Preventive Services, the Guide to Clinical Preventive Services, and the National Registry for Effective Programs.

“(2) Requirements.—A comprehensive workplace wellness program shall be made available by an eligible employer to all employees and include the following components:“(A) Health awareness initiatives (including health education, preventive screenings, and health risk assessments).

“(B) Efforts to maximize employee engagement (including mechanisms to encourage employee participation).

“(C) Initiatives to change unhealthy behaviors and lifestyle choices (including counseling, seminars, online programs, and self-help materials).

“(D) Supportive environment efforts (including workplace policies to encourage healthy lifestyles, healthy eating, increased physical activity, and improved mental health).



“(d) Application.—An eligible employer desiring to participate in the grant program under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary, in such manner and containing such information as the Secretary may require, which shall include a proposal for a comprehensive workplace wellness program that meet [sic] the criteria and requirements described under subsection (c).

“(e) Authorization of Appropriation.—For purposes of carrying out the grant program under this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $200,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2011 through 2015. Amounts appropriated pursuant to this subsection shall remain available until expended.”





