“SEC. 307. SPECIAL FUNCTIONS.“(a) Rural Utilities.—In carrying out its functions under this title, the Commission shall as appropriate, provide assistance, seek to avoid duplicating services and assistance, and complement the water and sewer wastewater programs under section 306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926d) and section 303 of the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996 (33 U.S.C. 1263a).

“(b) Bulk Fuels.—Funds transferred to the Commission pursuant to section 329 of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (section 101(g) of division A of this Act) [43 U.S.C. 1653 note] shall be available without further appropriation and until expended. The Commission, in consultation with the Commandant of the Coast Guard, shall develop a plan to provide for the repair or replacement of bulk fuel storage tanks in Alaska that are not in compliance with applicable—“(1) Federal law, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 484) [33 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.]; or

“(2) State law.


“(c) Demonstration Health Projects.—In order to demonstrate the value of adequate health facilities and services to the economic development of the region, the Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized to make interagency transfers to the Denali Commission to plan, construct, and equip demonstration health, nutrition, and child care projects, including hospitals, health care clinics, and mental health facilities (including drug and alcohol treatment centers) in accordance with the Work Plan referred to under section 304 of Title III—Denali Commission of Division C—Other Matters of Public Law 105–277. No grant for construction or equipment of a demonstration project shall exceed 50 percentum of such costs, unless the project is located in a severely economically distressed community, as identified in the Work Plan referred to under section 304 of Title III—Denali Commission of Division C—Other Matters of Public Law 105–277, in which case no grant shall exceed 80 percentum of such costs. To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary.

“(d) Solid Waste.—The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to make direct lump sum payments which shall remain available until expended to the Denali Commission to address deficiencies in solid waste disposal sites which threaten to contaminate rural drinking water supplies.

“(e) Docks, Waterfront Transportation Development, and Related Infrastructure Projects.—The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to make direct lump sum payments to the Commission to construct docks, waterfront development projects, and related transportation infrastructure, provided the local community provides a ten percent non-Federal match in the form of any necessary land or planning and design funds. To carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary.

