§ 10410. National resource centers and training and technical assistance centers(a) Purpose and grants authorized(1) PurposeThe purpose of this section is to provide resource information, training, and technical assistance relating to the objectives of this chapter to improve the capacity of individuals, organizations, governmental entities, and communities to prevent family violence, domestic violence, and dating violence and to provide effective intervention services.


(2) Grants authorizedFrom the amounts appropriated under this chapter and reserved under section 10403(a)(2)(C) of this title, the Secretary—(A) shall award grants to eligible entities for the establishment and maintenance of—(i) 2 national resource centers (as provided for in subsection (b)(1)); and

(ii) at least 7 special issue resource centers addressing key areas of domestic violence, and intervention and prevention (as provided for in subsection (b)(2)); and


(B) may award grants, to—(i) State resource centers to reduce disparities in domestic violence in States with high proportions of Indian (including Alaska Native) or Native Hawaiian populations (as provided for in subsection (b)(3)); and

(ii) support training and technical assistance that address emerging issues related to family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, to entities demonstrating related expertise.




(b) Domestic violence resource centers(1) National resource centersIn accordance with subsection (a)(2), the Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities for—(A) a National Resource Center on Domestic Violence, which shall—(i) offer a comprehensive array of technical assistance and training resources to Federal, State, and local governmental agencies, domestic violence service providers, community-based organizations, and other professionals and interested parties, related to domestic violence service programs and research, including programs and research related to victims and their children who are exposed to domestic violence; and

(ii) maintain a central resource library in order to collect, prepare, analyze, and disseminate information and statistics related to—(I) the incidence and prevention of family violence and domestic violence; and

(II) the provision of shelter, supportive services, and prevention services to adult and youth victims of domestic violence (including services to prevent repeated incidents of violence); and



(B) a National Indian Resource Center Addressing Domestic Violence and Safety for Indian Women, which shall—(i) offer a comprehensive array of technical assistance and training resources to Indian tribes and tribal organizations, specifically designed to enhance the capacity of the tribes and organizations to respond to domestic violence and the findings of section 901 of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg–10 note);

(ii) enhance the intervention and prevention efforts of Indian tribes and tribal organizations to respond to domestic violence and increase the safety of Indian women in support of the purposes of section 902 of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 [42 U.S.C. 3796gg–10 note]; and

(iii) coordinate activities with other Federal agencies, offices, and grantees that address the needs of Indians (including Alaska Natives), and Native Hawaiians that experience domestic violence, including the Office of Justice Services at the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Office on Violence Against Women of the Department of Justice.



(2) Special issue resource centersIn accordance with subsection (a)(2)(A)(ii), the Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities for special issue resource centers, which shall be national in scope and shall provide information, training, and technical assistance to State and local domestic violence service providers. Each special issue resource center shall focus on enhancing domestic violence intervention and prevention efforts in at least one of the following areas:(A) The response of the criminal and civil justice systems to domestic violence victims, which may include the response to the use of the self-defense plea by domestic violence victims and the issuance and use of protective orders.

(B) The response of child protective service agencies to victims of domestic violence and their dependents and child custody issues in domestic violence cases.

(C) The response of the interdisciplinary health care system to victims of domestic violence and access to health care resources for victims of domestic violence.

(D) The response of mental health systems, domestic violence service programs, and other related systems and programs to victims of domestic violence and to their children who are exposed to domestic violence.

(E) In the case of 3 specific resource centers, enhancing domestic violence intervention and prevention efforts for victims of domestic violence who are members of racial and ethnic minority groups, to enhance the cultural and linguistic relevancy of service delivery, resource utilization, policy, research, technical assistance, community education, and prevention initiatives.


(3) State resource centers to reduce tribal disparities(A) In generalIn accordance with subsection (a)(2), the Secretary may award grants to eligible entities for State resource centers, which shall provide statewide information, training, and technical assistance to Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and local domestic violence service organizations serving Indians (including Alaska Natives) or Native Hawaiians, in a culturally sensitive and relevant manner.


(B) RequirementsAn eligible entity shall use a grant provided under this paragraph—(i) to offer a comprehensive array of technical assistance and training resources to Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and providers of services to Indians (including Alaska Natives) or Native Hawaiians, specifically designed to enhance the capacity of the tribes, organizations, and providers to respond to domestic violence, including offering the resources in States in which the population of Indians (including Alaska Natives) or Native Hawaiians exceeds 2.5 percent of the total population of the State;

(ii) to coordinate all projects and activities with the national resource center described in paragraph (1)(B), including projects and activities that involve working with nontribal State and local governments to enhance their capacity to understand the unique needs of Indians (including Alaska Natives) and Native Hawaiians; and

(iii) to provide comprehensive community education and domestic violence prevention initiatives in a culturally sensitive and relevant manner.




(c) Eligibility(1) In generalTo be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (b)(1)(A) or subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D) of subsection (b)(2), an entity shall be a nonprofit private organization that focuses primarily on domestic violence and that—(A) provides documentation to the Secretary demonstrating experience working directly on issues of domestic violence, and (in the case of an entity seeking a grant under subsection (b)(2)) demonstrating experience working directly in the corresponding specific special issue area described in subsection (b)(2);

(B) includes on the entity’s advisory board representatives who are from domestic violence service programs and who are geographically and culturally diverse; and

(C) demonstrates the strong support of domestic violence service programs from across the Nation for the entity’s designation as a national resource center or a special issue resource center, as appropriate.


(2) National Indian Resource CenterTo be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (b)(1)(B), an entity shall be a tribal organization or a nonprofit private organization that focuses primarily on issues of domestic violence within Indian tribes and that submits documentation to the Secretary demonstrating—(A) experience working with Indian tribes and tribal organizations to respond to domestic violence and the findings of section 901 of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg–10 note);

(B) experience providing Indian tribes and tribal organizations with assistance in developing tribally-based prevention and intervention services addressing domestic violence and safety for Indian women consistent with the purposes of section 902 of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg–10 note);

(C) strong support for the entity’s designation as the National Indian Resource Center Addressing Domestic Violence and Safety for Indian Women from advocates working within Indian tribes to address domestic violence and the safety of Indian women;

(D) a record of demonstrated effectiveness in assisting Indian tribes and tribal organizations with prevention and intervention services addressing domestic violence; and

(E) the capacity to serve Indian tribes (including Alaska Native villages and regional and village corporations) across the United States.


(3) Special issue resource centers concerned with racial and ethnic minority groupsTo be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (b)(2)(E), an entity shall be an entity that—(A) is a nonprofit private organization that focuses primarily on issues of domestic violence in a racial or ethnic community, or is a public or private nonprofit educational institution that has a domestic violence institute, center, or program related to culturally specific issues in domestic violence; and

(B)(i) has documented experience in the areas of domestic violence prevention and services, and experience relevant to the specific racial or ethnic population to which information, training, technical assistance, and outreach would be provided under the grant;

(ii) demonstrates the strong support, of advocates from across the Nation who are working to address domestic violence; and

(iii) has a record of demonstrated effectiveness in enhancing the cultural and linguistic relevancy of service delivery.



(4) State resource centers to reduce tribal disparitiesTo be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (b)(3), an entity shall—(A)(i) be located in a State in which the population of Indians (including Alaska Natives) or Native Hawaiians exceeds 10 percent of the total population of the State; or

(ii) be an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or Native Hawaiian organization that focuses primarily on issues of domestic violence among Indians or Native Hawaiians, or an institution of higher education; and


(B) demonstrate the ability to serve all regions of the State, including underdeveloped areas and areas that are geographically distant from population centers.



(d) Reports and evaluationEach entity receiving a grant under this section shall submit a performance report to the Secretary annually and in such manner as shall be reasonably required by the Secretary. Such performance report shall describe the activities that have been carried out with such grant funds, contain an evaluation of the effectiveness of the activities, and provide such additional information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(Pub. L. 98–457, title III, § 310, as added Pub. L. 111–320, title II, § 201, Dec. 20, 2010, 124 Stat. 3497.)


References in TextSections 901 and 902 of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1)(B)(i), (ii) and (c)(2)(A), (B), are sections 901 and 902, respectively, of Pub. L. 109–162, which are set out as a note under section 3796gg–10 of this title.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 10410, Pub. L. 98–457, title III, § 311, Oct. 9, 1984, 98 Stat. 1763; Pub. L. 100–294, title III, § 303(b), Apr. 25, 1988, 102 Stat. 125; Pub. L. 102–295, title III, § 317, May 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 206; Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40272(c), Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1938; Pub. L. 108–36, title IV, §§ 406(c), 407, 415(6), June 25, 2003, 117 Stat. 827, 830, related to grants for State domestic violence coalitions, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by Pub. L. 111–320. See section 10411 of this title.
A prior section 310 of Pub. L. 98–457 was classified to section 10409 of this title prior to the general amendment of this chapter by Pub. L. 111–320.


