§ 15908. Preservation of geological and geophysical data(a) Short titleThis section may be cited as the “National Geological and Geophysical Data Preservation Program Act of 2005”.


(b) ProgramThe Secretary shall carry out a National Geological and Geophysical Data Preservation Program in accordance with this section—(1) to archive geologic, geophysical, and engineering data, maps, well logs, and samples;

(2) to provide a national catalog of such archival material; and

(3) to provide technical and financial assistance related to the archival material.


(c) PlanNot later than 1 year after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a plan for the implementation of the Program.


(d) Data archive system(1) EstablishmentThe Secretary shall establish, as a component of the Program, a data archive system to provide for the storage, preservation, and archiving of subsurface, surface, geological, geophysical, and engineering data and samples. The Secretary, in consultation with the Advisory Committee, shall develop guidelines relating to the data archive system, including the types of data and samples to be preserved.


(2) System componentsThe system shall be comprised of State agencies that elect to be part of the system and agencies within the Department of the Interior that maintain geological and geophysical data and samples that are designated by the Secretary in accordance with this subsection. The Program shall provide for the storage of data and samples through data repositories operated by such agencies.


(3) Limitation of designationThe Secretary may not designate a State agency as a component of the data archive system unless that agency is the agency that acts as the geological survey in the State.


(4) Data from Federal landThe data archive system shall provide for the archiving of relevant subsurface data and samples obtained from Federal land—(A) in the most appropriate repository designated under paragraph (2), with preference being given to archiving data in the State in which the data were collected; and

(B) consistent with all applicable law and requirements relating to confidentiality and proprietary data.



(e) National catalog(1) In generalAs soon as practicable after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall develop and maintain, as a component of the Program, a national catalog that identifies—(A) data and samples available in the data archive system established under subsection (d);

(B) the repository for particular material in the system; and

(C) the means of accessing the material.


(2) AvailabilityThe Secretary shall make the national catalog accessible to the public on the site of the Survey on the Internet, consistent with all applicable requirements related to confidentiality and proprietary data.



(f) Advisory Committee(1) In generalThe Advisory Committee shall advise the Secretary on planning and implementation of the Program.


(2) New dutiesIn addition to its duties under the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31a et seq.), the Advisory Committee shall perform the following duties:(A) Advise the Secretary on developing guidelines and procedures for providing assistance for facilities under subsection (g)(1).

(B) Review and critique the draft implementation plan prepared by the Secretary under subsection (c).

(C) Identify useful studies of data archived under the Program that will advance understanding of the Nation’s energy and mineral resources, geologic hazards, and engineering geology.

(D) Review the progress of the Program in archiving significant data and preventing the loss of such data, and the scientific progress of the studies funded under the Program.

(E) Include in the annual report to the Secretary required under section 5(b)(3) 11 See References in Text note below. of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31d(b)(3)) an evaluation of the progress of the Program toward fulfilling the purposes of the Program under subsection (b).



(g) Financial assistance(1) Archive facilitiesSubject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall provide financial assistance to a State agency that is designated under subsection (d)(2) for providing facilities to archive energy material.


(2) StudiesSubject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall provide financial assistance to any State agency designated under subsection (d)(2) for studies and technical assistance activities that enhance understanding, interpretation, and use of materials archived in the data archive system established under subsection (d).


(3) Federal shareThe Federal share of the cost of an activity carried out with assistance under this subsection shall be not more than 50 percent of the total cost of the activity.


(4) Private contributionsThe Secretary shall apply to the non-Federal share of the cost of an activity carried out with assistance under this subsection the value of private contributions of property and services used for that activity.



(h) ReportThe Secretary shall include in each report under section 8 of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31g)—(1) a description of the status of the Program;

(2) an evaluation of the progress achieved in developing the Program during the period covered by the report; and

(3) any recommendations for legislative or other action the Secretary considers necessary and appropriate to fulfill the purposes of the Program under subsection (b).


(i) Maintenance of State effortIt is the intent of Congress that the States not use this section as an opportunity to reduce State resources applied to the activities that are the subject of the Program.


(j) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Advisory CommitteeThe term “Advisory Committee” means the advisory committee established under section 5 of the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31d).


(2) ProgramThe term “Program” means the National Geological and Geophysical Data Preservation Program carried out under this section.


(3) SecretaryThe term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United States Geological Survey.


(4) SurveyThe term “Survey” means the United States Geological Survey.



(k) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010.


(Pub. L. 109–58, title III, § 351, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 711.)


References in TextThe National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992, referred to in subsec. (f)(2), is Pub. L. 102–285, May 18, 1992, 106 Stat. 166, which is classified principally to sections 31a to 31h of Title 43, Public Lands. Par. (3) of section 5(b) of the Act was redesignated par. (4) by Pub. L. 111–11, title XI, § 11001(f)(2)(B), Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1415, and is now classified to section 31d(b)(4) of Title 43. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 31a of Title 43 and Tables.


