§ 12653p. Volunteer generation fund(a) Grants authorizedSubject to the availability of appropriations for this section, the Corporation may make grants to State Commissions and nonprofit organizations for the purpose of assisting the State Commissions and nonprofit organizations to—(1) develop and carry out volunteer programs described in subsection (c); and

(2) make subgrants to support and create new local community-based entities that recruit, manage, or support volunteers as described in such subsection.


(b) Application(1) In generalEach State Commission or nonprofit organization desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Corporation at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Corporation may reasonably require.


(2) ContentsEach application submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall contain—(A)(i) 11 So in original. No cl. (ii) has been enacted. a description of the program that the applicant will provide;


(B) an assurance that the applicant will annually collect information on—(i) the number of volunteers recruited for activities carried out under this section, using funds received under this section, and the type and amount of activities carried out by such volunteers; and

(ii) the number of volunteers managed or supported using funds received under this section, and the type and amount of activities carried out by such volunteers;


(C) a description of the outcomes the applicant will use to annually measure and track performance with regard to—(i) activities carried out by volunteers; and

(ii) volunteers recruited, managed, or supported; and


(D) such additional assurances as the Corporation determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section.



(c) Eligible volunteer programsA State Commission or nonprofit organization receiving a grant under this section shall use the assistance—(1) directly to carry out volunteer programs or to develop and support community-based entities that recruit, manage, or support volunteers, by carrying out activities consistent with the goals of the subgrants described in paragraph (2); or

(2) through subgrants to community-based entities to carry out volunteer programs or develop and support such entities that recruit, manage, or support volunteers, through 1 or more of the following types of subgrants:(A) A subgrant to a community-based entity for activities that are consistent with the priorities set by the State’s national service plan as described in section 12638(e) of this title, or by the Corporation.

(B) A subgrant to recruit, manage, or support volunteers to a community-based entity such as a volunteer coordinating agency, a nonprofit resource center, a volunteer training clearinghouse, an institution of higher education, or a collaborative partnership of faith-based and community-based organizations.

(C) A subgrant to a community-based entity that provides technical assistance and support to—(i) strengthen the capacity of local volunteer infrastructure organizations;

(ii) address areas of national need (as defined in section 12653b(a) of this title); and

(iii) expand the number of volunteers nationally.




(d) Allocation of funds(1) In generalOf the funds allocated by the Corporation for provision of assistance under this section for a fiscal year—(A) the Corporation shall use 50 percent of such funds to award grants, on a competitive basis, to State Commissions and nonprofit organizations for such fiscal year; and

(B) the Corporation shall use 50 percent of such funds make 22 So in original. Probably should be preceded by “to”. an allotment to the State Commissions of each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico based on the formula described in subsections (e) and (f) of section 12581 of this title, subject to paragraph (2).


(2) Minimum grant amountIn order to ensure that each State Commission is able to improve efforts to recruit, manage, or support volunteers, the Corporation may determine a minimum grant amount for allotments under paragraph (1)(B).



(e) Limitation on administrative costsNot more than 5 percent of the amount of any grant provided under this section for a fiscal year may be used to pay for administrative costs incurred by either the recipient of the grant or any community-based entity receiving assistance or a subgrant under such grant.


(f) Matching fund requirementsThe Corporation share of the cost of carrying out a program that receives assistance under this section, whether the assistance is provided directly or as a subgrant from the original recipient of the assistance, may not exceed—(1) 80 percent of such cost for the first year in which the recipient receives such assistance;

(2) 70 percent of such cost for the second year in which the recipient receives such assistance;

(3) 60 percent of such cost for the third year in which the recipient receives such assistance; and

(4) 50 percent of such cost for the fourth year in which the recipient receives such assistance and each year thereafter.


(Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 198P, as added Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1808, Apr. 21, 2009, 123 Stat. 1573.)
