§ 3797q. Grant authority(a) In generalThe Attorney General may make grants to State, Tribal, and local prosecutors to develop, implement, or expand qualified drug treatment programs that are alternatives to imprisonment, in accordance with this subchapter.


(b) Qualified drug treatment programs describedFor purposes of this subchapter, a qualified drug treatment program is a program—(1) that is administered by a State, Tribal, or local prosecutor;

(2) that requires an eligible offender who is sentenced to participate in the program (instead of incarceration) to participate in a comprehensive substance abuse treatment program that is approved by the State or Indian Tribe and licensed, if necessary, to provide medical and other health services;

(3) that requires an eligible offender to receive the consent of the State, Tribal, or local prosecutor involved to participate in such program;

(4) that, in the case of an eligible offender who is sentenced to participate in the program, requires the offender to serve a sentence of imprisonment with respect to the crime involved if the prosecutor, in conjunction with the treatment provider, determines that the offender has not successfully completed the relevant substance abuse treatment program described in paragraph (2);

(5) that provides for the dismissal of the criminal charges involved in an eligible offender’s participation in the program if the offender is determined to have successfully completed the program;

(6) that requires each substance abuse provider treating an eligible offender under the program to—(A) make periodic reports of the progress of the treatment of that offender to the State, Tribal, or local prosecutor involved and to the appropriate court in which the eligible offender was convicted; and

(B) notify such prosecutor and such court if the eligible offender absconds from the facility of the treatment provider or otherwise violates the terms and conditions of the program, consistent with Federal and State confidentiality requirements; and


(7) that has an enforcement unit comprised of law enforcement officers under the supervision of the State, Tribal, or local prosecutor involved, the duties of which shall include verifying an eligible offender’s addresses and other contacts, and, if necessary, locating, apprehending, and arresting an eligible offender who has absconded from the facility of a substance abuse treatment provider or otherwise violated the terms and conditions of the program, consistent with Federal and State confidentiality requirements, and returning such eligible offender to court for sentencing for the crime involved.


(Pub. L. 90–351, title I, § 2901, as added Pub. L. 110–199, title I, § 112(a), Apr. 9, 2008, 122 Stat. 672.)

Construction of 2008 AmendmentFor construction of amendments by Pub. L. 110–199 and requirements for grants made under such amendments, see section 17504 of this title.


