“SEC. 304. COMPOSITION OF COMMISSION.“(a) Membership.—“(1) Total membership.—The Agreement should provide for the Commission to be composed of 24 members, of which 12 members are appointed by the President and 12 members are appointed by the Government of Canada.

“(2) General qualifications.—The Agreement should provide for the membership of the Commission, to the maximum extent practicable, to be representative of—“(A) the interests of the local communities (including the governments of the communities), aboriginal peoples, and businesses that would be affected by the connection of the rail system in Alaska to the North American continental rail system; and

“(B) a broad range of expertise in areas of knowledge that are relevant to the significant issues to be considered by the Commission, including economics, engineering, management of resources, social sciences, fish and game management, environmental sciences, and transportation.



“(b) United States Membership.—If the United States and Canada enter into an agreement providing for the establishment of the Commission, the President shall appoint the United States members of the Commission as follows:“(1) Two members from among persons who are qualified to represent the interests of communities and local governments of Alaska.

“(2) One member representing the State of Alaska, to be nominated by the Governor of Alaska.

“(3) One member from among persons who are qualified to represent the interests of Native Alaskans residing in the area of Alaska that would be affected by the extension of rail service.

“(4) Three members from among persons involved in commercial activities in Alaska who are qualified to represent commercial interests in Alaska, of which one shall be a representative of the Alaska Railroad Corporation.

“(5) One member representing United States Class I rail carriers and one member representing United States rail labor.

“(6) Three members with relevant expertise, at least one of whom shall be an engineer with expertise in subarctic transportation and at least one of whom shall have expertise on the environmental impact of such transportation.


“(c) Canadian Membership.—The Agreement should provide for the Canadian membership of the Commission to be representative of broad categories of interests of Canada as the Government of Canada determines appropriate, consistent with subsection (a)(2).

