§ 300mm–1. WTC Health Program Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee; WTC Health Program Steering Committees(a) Advisory Committee(1) EstablishmentThe WTC Program Administrator shall establish an advisory committee to be known as the WTC Health Program Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee (in this subsection referred to as the “Advisory Committee”) to review scientific and medical evidence and to make recommendations to the Administrator on additional WTC Program eligibility criteria and on additional WTC-related health conditions.


(2) CompositionThe WTC Program Administrator shall appoint the members of the Advisory Committee and shall include at least—(A) 4 occupational physicians, at least 2 of whom have experience treating WTC rescue and recovery workers;

(B) 1 physician with expertise in pulmonary medicine;

(C) 2 environmental medicine or environmental health specialists;

(D) 2 representatives of WTC responders;

(E) 2 representatives of certified-eligible WTC survivors;

(F) an industrial hygienist;

(G) a toxicologist;

(H) an epidemiologist; and

(I) a mental health professional.


(3) MeetingsThe Advisory Committee shall meet at such frequency as may be required to carry out its duties.


(4) ReportsThe WTC Program Administrator shall provide for publication of recommendations of the Advisory Committee on the public Web site established for the WTC Program.


(5) DurationNotwithstanding any other provision of law, the Advisory Committee shall continue in operation during the period in which the WTC Program is in operation.


(6) Application of FACAExcept as otherwise specifically provided, the Advisory Committee shall be subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act.



(b) WTC Health Program Steering Committees(1) ConsultationThe WTC Program Administrator shall consult with 2 steering committees (each in this section referred to as a “Steering Committee”) that are established as follows:(A) WTC Responders Steering CommitteeOne Steering Committee, to be known as the WTC Responders Steering Committee, for the purpose of receiving input from affected stakeholders and facilitating the coordination of monitoring and treatment programs for the enrolled WTC responders under subpart 1 of part B.


(B) WTC Survivors Steering CommitteeOne Steering Committee, to be known as the WTC Survivors Steering Committee, for the purpose of receiving input from affected stakeholders and facilitating the coordination of initial health evaluations, monitoring, and treatment programs for screening-eligible and certified-eligible WTC survivors under subpart 2 of part B.



(2) Membership(A) WTC Responders Steering Committee(i) RepresentationThe WTC Responders Steering Committee shall include—(I) representatives of the Centers of Excellence providing services to WTC responders;

(II) representatives of labor organizations representing firefighters, police, other New York City employees, and recovery and cleanup workers who responded to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks; and

(III) 3 representatives of New York City, 1 of whom will be selected by the police commissioner of New York City, 1 by the health commissioner of New York City, and 1 by the mayor of New York City.


(ii) Initial membershipThe WTC Responders Steering Committee shall initially be composed of members of the WTC Monitoring and Treatment Program Steering Committee (as in existence on the day before January 2, 2011).



(B) WTC Survivors Steering Committee(i) RepresentationThe WTC Survivors Steering Committee shall include representatives of—(I) the Centers of Excellence providing services to screening-eligible and certified-eligible WTC survivors;

(II) the population of residents, students, and area and other workers affected by the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks;

(III) screening-eligible and certified-eligible survivors receiving initial health evaluations, monitoring, or treatment under subpart 2 of part B and organizations advocating on their behalf; and

(IV) New York City.


(ii) Initial membershipThe WTC Survivors Steering Committee shall initially be composed of members of the WTC Environmental Health Center Survivor Advisory Committee (as in existence on the day before January 2, 2011).



(C) Additional appointmentsEach Steering Committee may recommend, if approved by a majority of voting members of the Committee, additional members to the Committee.


(D) VacanciesA vacancy in a Steering Committee shall be filled by an individual recommended by the Steering Committee.




(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XXXIII, § 3302, as added Pub. L. 111–347, title I, § 101, Jan. 2, 2011, 124 Stat. 3627.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(6), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


