§ 60506. Retaliation against British dominions of North America(a) General Authority.—The President by proclamation may prohibit vessels of the British dominions of North America, their masters and crews, and products of or coming from those dominions, from entering waters, ports, or places of the United States when the President is satisfied that—(1) fishermen or fishing vessels of the United States in waters, ports, or places of the British dominions of North America are being or recently have been—(A) denied rights provided by law or treaty;

(B) subjected to unreasonable restrictions in the exercise of those rights; or

(C) otherwise harassed;


(2) fishermen or fishing vessels of the United States, having a permit under the laws of the United States to dock or trade at a port or place in the British dominions of North America, are being or recently have been—(A) denied the privilege of entering the port or place in the same manner and under the same regulations applicable to trading vessels of the most-favored-nation;

(B) prevented from buying supplies allowed to be sold to trading vessels of the most-favored-nation; or

(C) otherwise harassed; or


(3) other vessels of the United States or their masters or crews in waters, ports, or places of the British dominions of North America are being or recently have been—(A) denied privileges given to vessels of the most-favored-nation or their masters or crews; or

(B) otherwise harassed.



(b) Coverage and Exceptions.—The President may apply a proclamation under this section to any of the subjects named, and may include exceptions for vessels in distress or need of supplies. The President may change, revoke, and renew the proclamation.

(c) Penalties.—A person violating a proclamation issued under this section shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 2 years, or both. A vessel or goods found in waters, ports, or places of the United States in violation of the proclamation may be seized by, and forfeited to, the United States Government.

(Pub. L. 109–304, § 9(b), Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1681.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


6050646 App.:143.Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 339, 24 Stat. 475.


In this section, the words “fishermen or fishing vessels of the United States” are substituted for “American fishing vessels or American fishermen” for consistency in the revised title. The words “are or recently have been denied” are substituted for “are or then lately have been denied or abridged” to eliminate unnecessary words.
In subsection (a), the words before paragraph (1) are substituted for “Whenever the President of the United States shall be satisfied . . . then, and in either or all of such cases, it shall be lawful, and it shall be the duty of the President of the United States, in his discretion, by proclamation to that effect, to deny vessels, their masters and crews, of the British dominions of North America, any entrance into the waters, ports, or places of or within the United States . . . whether such vessel shall have come directly from said dominions on such destined voyage or by way of some port or place in such destined voyage elsewhere; and also to deny entry into any port or place of the United States of fresh fish or salt fish or any other product of said dominions, or other goods coming from said dominions to the United States” to eliminate unnecessary words.
In subsection (a)(1)(B), the words “regulations, or requirements” are omitted as unnecessary.
In subsection (a)(1)(C), the words “otherwise harassed” are substituted for “unjustly vexed or harassed in the enjoyment of such rights, . . . or otherwise unjustly vexed or harassed” to eliminate unnecessary words.
In subsection (a)(2), before subparagraph (A), the word “dock” is substituted for “touch” for clarity. In subparagraph (C), the words “otherwise harassed” are substituted for “unjustly vexed or harassed, in respect thereof, or otherwise be unjustly vexed or harassed therein” to eliminate unnecessary words.
In subsection (a)(3)(B), the words “otherwise harassed” are substituted for “unjustly vexed or harassed in respect of the same, or unjustly vexed or harassed therein” to eliminate unnecessary words.
Subsection (b) is substituted for “(with such exceptions in regard to vessels in distress, stress of weather, or needing supplies as to the President shall seem proper)” and “The President may, in his discretion, apply such proclamation to any part or to all of the foregoing named subjects, and may revoke, qualify, limit, and renew such proclamation from time to time as he may deem necessary to the full and just execution of the purposes of this section” to eliminate unnecessary words.
Subsection (c) is substituted for “Every violation of any such proclamation, or any part thereof, is declared illegal, and all vessels and goods so coming or being within the waters, ports, or places of the United States contrary to such proclamation shall be forfeited to the United States; and such forfeiture shall be enforced and proceeded upon in the same manner and with the same effect as in the case of vessels or goods whose importation or coming to or being in the waters or ports of the United States contrary to law may be enforced and proceeded upon. Every person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section, or such proclamation of the President made in pursuance hereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or by both said punishments, in the discretion of the court.” for consistency in the revised title and with chapter 227 of title 18 and to eliminate unnecessary words.


