§ 285c–1. Data systems and information clearinghouses(a) National Diabetes Data System and National Diabetes ClearinghouseThe Director of the Institute shall (1) establish the National Diabetes Data System for the collection, storage, analysis, retrieval, and dissemination of data derived from patient populations with diabetes, including, where possible, data involving general populations for the purpose of detection of individuals with a risk of developing diabetes, and (2) establish the National Diabetes Information Clearinghouse to facilitate and enhance knowledge and understanding of diabetes on the part of health professionals, patients, and the public through the effective dissemination of information.


(b) National Digestive Diseases Data System and National Digestive Diseases Information ClearinghouseThe Director of the Institute shall (1) establish the National Digestive Diseases Data System for the collection, storage, analysis, retrieval, and dissemination of data derived from patient populations with digestive diseases, including, where possible, data involving general populations for the purpose of detection of individuals with a risk of developing digestive diseases, and (2) establish the National Digestive Diseases Information Clearinghouse to facilitate and enhance knowledge and understanding of digestive diseases on the part of health professionals, patients, and the public through the effective dissemination of information.


(c) National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Data System and National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information ClearinghouseThe Director of the Institute shall (1) establish the National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Data System for the collection, storage, analysis, retrieval, and dissemination of data derived from patient populations with kidney and urologic diseases, including, where possible, data involving general populations for the purpose of detection of individuals with a risk of developing kidney and urologic diseases, and (2) establish the National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse to facilitate and enhance knowledge and understanding of kidney and urologic diseases on the part of health professionals, patients, and the public through the effective dissemination of information.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 427, as added Pub. L. 99–158, § 2, Nov. 20, 1985, 99 Stat. 841.)
