§ 1396r–1b. Presumptive eligibility for certain breast or cervical cancer patients(a) State optionA State plan approved under section 1396a of this title may provide for making medical assistance available to an individual described in section 1396a(aa) of this title (relating to certain breast or cervical cancer patients) during a presumptive eligibility period.


(b) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section:(1) Presumptive eligibility periodThe term “presumptive eligibility period” means, with respect to an individual described in subsection (a) of this section, the period that—(A) begins with the date on which a qualified entity determines, on the basis of preliminary information, that the individual is described in section 1396a(aa) of this title; and

(B) ends with (and includes) the earlier of—(i) the day on which a determination is made with respect to the eligibility of such individual for services under the State plan; or

(ii) in the case of such an individual who does not file an application by the last day of the month following the month during which the entity makes the determination referred to in subparagraph (A), such last day.



(2) Qualified entity(A) In generalSubject to subparagraph (B), the term “qualified entity” means any entity that—(i) is eligible for payments under a State plan approved under this subchapter; and

(ii) is determined by the State agency to be capable of making determinations of the type described in paragraph (1)(A).


(B) RegulationsThe Secretary may issue regulations further limiting those entities that may become qualified entities in order to prevent fraud and abuse and for other reasons.


(C) Rule of constructionNothing in this paragraph shall be construed as preventing a State from limiting the classes of entities that may become qualified entities, consistent with any limitations imposed under subparagraph (B).




(c) Administration(1) In generalThe State agency shall provide qualified entities with—(A) such forms as are necessary for an application to be made by an individual described in subsection (a) of this section for medical assistance under the State plan; and

(B) information on how to assist such individuals in completing and filing such forms.


(2) Notification requirementsA qualified entity that determines under subsection (b)(1)(A) of this section that an individual described in subsection (a) of this section is presumptively eligible for medical assistance under a State plan shall—(A) notify the State agency of the determination within 5 working days after the date on which determination is made; and

(B) inform such individual at the time the determination is made that an application for medical assistance under the State plan is required to be made by not later than the last day of the month following the month during which the determination is made.


(3) Application for medical assistanceIn the case of an individual described in subsection (a) of this section who is determined by a qualified entity to be presumptively eligible for medical assistance under a State plan, the individual shall apply for medical assistance under such plan by not later than the last day of the month following the month during which the determination is made.



(d) PaymentNotwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, medical assistance that—(1) is furnished to an individual described in subsection (a) of this section—(A) during a presumptive eligibility period;

(B) by a 11 So in original. Probably should be “an”. entity that is eligible for payments under the State plan; and


(2) is included in the care and services covered by the State plan,


shall be treated as medical assistance provided by such plan for purposes of clause (4) of the first sentence of section 1396d(b) of this title.

(Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title XIX, § 1920B, as added Pub. L. 106–354, § 2(b)(1), Oct. 24, 2000, 114 Stat. 1382.)

Effective DateSection applicable to medical assistance for items and services furnished on or after Oct. 1, 2000, without regard to whether final regulations to carry out such amendments have been promulgated by such date, see section 2(d) of Pub. L. 106–354, set out as an Effective Date of 2000 Amendment note under section 1396a of this title.


