“SEC. 4. PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS COLLECTION AT THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION.“(a) In General.—(1) Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 26, 1992], the National Archives and Records Administration shall commence establishment of a collection of records to be known as the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection. In so doing, the Archivist shall ensure the physical integrity and original provenance of all records. The Collection shall consist of record copies of all Government records relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, which shall be transmitted to the National Archives in accordance with section 2107 of title 44, United States Code. The Archivist shall prepare and publish a subject guidebook and index to the collection.

“(2) The Collection shall include—“(A) all assassination records—“(i) that have been transmitted to the National Archives or disclosed to the public in an unredacted form prior to the date of enactment of this Act;

“(ii) that are required to be transmitted to the National Archives; or

“(iii) the disclosure of which is postponed under this Act;


“(B) a central directory comprised of identification aids created for each record transmitted to the Archivist under section 5; and

“(C) all Review Board records as required by this Act.



“(b) Disclosure of Records.—All assassination records transmitted to the National Archives for disclosure to the public shall be included in the Collection and shall be available to the public for inspection and copying at the National Archives within 30 days after their transmission to the National Archives.

“(c) Fees for Copying.—The Archivist shall—“(1) charge fees for copying assassination records; and

“(2) grant waivers of such fees pursuant to the standards established by section 552(a)(4) of title 5, United States Code.


“(d) Additional Requirements.—(1) The Collection shall be preserved, protected, archived, and made available to the public at the National Archives using appropriations authorized, specified, and restricted for use under the terms of this Act.

“(2) The National Archives, in consultation with the Information Security Oversight Office, shall ensure the security of the postponed assassination records in the Collection.


“(e) Oversight.—The Committee on Government Operations [now Committee on Oversight and Government Reform] of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental Affairs [now Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs] of the Senate shall have continuing oversight jurisdiction with respect to the Collection.

