§ 6991i. Operator training(a) Guidelines(1) In generalNot later than 2 years after August 8, 2005, in consultation and cooperation with States and after public notice and opportunity for comment, the Administrator shall publish guidelines that specify training requirements for—(A) persons having primary responsibility for on-site operation and maintenance of underground storage tank systems;

(B) persons having daily on-site responsibility for the operation and maintenance of underground storage tanks systems; and

(C) daily, on-site employees having primary responsibility for addressing emergencies presented by a spill or release from an underground storage tank system.


(2) ConsiderationsThe guidelines described in paragraph (1) shall take into account—(A) State training programs in existence as of the date of publication of the guidelines;

(B) training programs that are being employed by tank owners and tank operators as of August 8, 2005;

(C) the high turnover rate of tank operators and other personnel;

(D) the frequency of improvement in underground storage tank equipment technology;

(E) the nature of the businesses in which the tank operators are engaged;

(F) the substantial differences in the scope and length of training needed for the different classes of persons described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (1); and

(G) such other factors as the Administrator determines to be necessary to carry out this section.



(b) State programs(1) In generalNot later than 2 years after the date on which the Administrator publishes the guidelines under subsection (a)(1) of this section, each State that receives funding under this subchapter shall develop State-specific training requirements that are consistent with the guidelines developed under subsection (a)(1) of this section.


(2) RequirementsState requirements described in paragraph (1) shall—(A) be consistent with subsection (a) of this section;

(B) be developed in cooperation with tank owners and tank operators;

(C) take into consideration training programs implemented by tank owners and tank operators as of August 8, 2005; and

(D) be appropriately communicated to tank owners and operators.


(3) Financial incentiveThe Administrator may award to a State that develops and implements requirements described in paragraph (1), in addition to any funds that the State is entitled to receive under this subchapter, not more than $200,000, to be used to carry out the requirements.



(c) TrainingAll persons that are subject to the operator training requirements of subsection (a) of this section shall—(1) meet the training requirements developed under subsection (b) of this section; and

(2) repeat the applicable requirements developed under subsection (b) of this section, if the tank for which they have primary daily on-site management responsibilities is determined to be out of compliance with—(A) a requirement or standard promulgated by the Administrator under section 6991b of this title; or

(B) a requirement or standard of a State program approved under section 6991c of this title.



(Pub. L. 89–272, title II, § 9010, as added Pub. L. 98–616, title VI, § 601(a), Nov. 8, 1984, 98 Stat. 3287; amended Pub. L. 109–58, title XV, § 1524(a), Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 1095.)


References in TextAugust 8, 2005, referred to in subsec. (b)(2)(C), was in the original “the date of enactment of this section”, which was translated as meaning the date of enactment of Pub. L. 109–58, which amended this section generally, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

Amendments2005—Pub. L. 109–58 amended section catchline and text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “For authorization of appropriations to carry out this subchapter, see section 6916(g) of this title.”


