“SEC. 32707. IMPROVED OVERSIGHT OF MOTORCOACH SERVICE PROVIDERS.“(a) Safety Reviews.—[Amended section 31144 of this title.]

“(b) Disclosure of Safety Performance Ratings of Motorcoach Services and Operations.—“(1) Definitions.—In this subsection:“(A) Motorcoach.—“(i) In general.—Except as provided in clause (ii), the term ‘motorcoach’ has the meaning given the term ‘over-the-road bus’ in section 3038(a)(3) of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century [Pub. L. 105–178] (49 U.S.C. 5310 note).

“(ii) Exclusions.—The term ‘motorcoach’ does not include—     “(I) a bus used in public transportation that is provided by a State or local government; or

     “(II) a school bus (as defined in section 30125(a)(1) of title 49, United States Code), including a multifunction school activity bus.



“(B) Motorcoach services and operations.—The term ‘motorcoach services and operations’ means passenger transportation by a motorcoach for compensation.


“(2) Requirements for the disclosure of safety performance ratings of motorcoach services and operations.—“(A) In general.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish, through notice and opportunity for public to comment, requirements to improve the accessibility to the public of safety rating information of motorcoach services and operations.

“(B) Display.—In establishing the requirements under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall consider requirements for each motor carrier that owns or leases 1 or more motorcoaches that transport passengers subject to the Secretary’s jurisdiction under section 13501 of title 49, United States Code, to prominently display safety fitness information pursuant to section 31144 of title 49, United States Code—“(i) in each terminal of departure;

“(ii) in the motorcoach and visible from a position exterior to the vehicle at the point of departure, if the motorcoach does not depart from a terminal; and

“(iii) at all points of sale for such motorcoach services and operations.




