§ 44516. Human factors program(a) Human Factors Training.—(1) Air traffic controllers.—The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall—(A) address the problems and concerns raised by the National Research Council in its report “The Future of Air Traffic Control” on air traffic control automation; and

(B) respond to the recommendations made by the National Research Council.


(2) Pilots and flight crews.—The Administrator shall work with representatives of the aviation industry and appropriate aviation programs associated with universities to develop specific training curricula to address critical safety problems, including problems of pilots—(A) in recovering from loss of control of an aircraft, including handling unusual attitudes and mechanical malfunctions;

(B) in deviating from standard operating procedures, including inappropriate responses to emergencies and hazardous weather;

(C) in awareness of altitude and location relative to terrain to prevent controlled flight into terrain; and

(D) in landing and approaches, including nonprecision approaches and go-around procedures.



(b) Test Program.—The Administrator shall establish a test program in cooperation with air carriers to use model Jeppesen approach plates or other similar tools to improve precision-like landing approaches for aircraft.

(c) Report.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Administrator shall transmit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on the status of the Administration’s efforts to encourage the adoption and implementation of advanced qualification programs for air carriers under this section.

(d) Advanced Qualification Program Defined.—In this section, the term “advanced qualification program” means an alternative method for qualifying, training, certifying, and ensuring the competency of flight crews and other commercial aviation operations personnel subject to the training and evaluation requirements of parts 121 and 135 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations.

(Added Pub. L. 106–181, title VII, § 713(a), Apr. 5, 2000, 114 Stat. 160.)


References in TextThe date of the enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (c), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 106–181, which was approved Apr. 5, 2000.

Effective DateSection applicable only to fiscal years beginning after Sept. 30, 1999, see section 3 of Pub. L. 106–181, set out as an Effective Date of 2000 Amendments note under section 106 of this title.


