§ 4503. National Urban Policy Report(a) Transmittal to Congress; contentsThe President shall transmit to the Congress, not later than June 1, 1993, and not later than the first day of June of every odd-numbered year thereafter, a Report on National Urban Policy which shall contribute to the formulation of such a policy, and in addition shall include—(1) information, statistics, and significant trends relating to the pattern of urban development for the preceding two years;

(2) a summary of significant problems facing the United States as a result of urban trends and developments affecting the well-being of urban areas;

(3) an examination of the housing and related community development problems experienced by cities undergoing a growth rate which equals or exceeds the national average;

(4) an evaluation of the progress and effectiveness of Federal efforts designed to meet such problems and to carry out the national urban policy;

(5) an assessment of the policies and structure of existing and proposed interstate planning and developments affecting such policy;

(6) a review of State, local, and private policies, plans, and programs relevant to such policy;

(7) current and foreseeable needs in the areas served by policies, plans, and programs designed to carry out such policy, and the steps being taken to meet such needs; and

(8) recommendations for programs and policies for carrying out such policy, including legislative or administrative proposals—(A) to promote coordination among Federal programs to assist urban areas;

(B) to enhance the fiscal capacity of fiscally distressed urban areas;

(C) to promote job opportunities in economically distressed urban areas and to enhance the job skills of residents of such areas;

(D) to generate decent and affordable housing;

(E) to reduce racial tensions and to combat racial and ethnic violence in urban areas;

(F) to combat urban drug abuse and drug-related crime and violence;

(G) to promote the delivery of health care to low-income communities in urban areas;

(H) to expand educational opportunities in urban areas; and

(I) to achieve the goals of the national urban policy.



(b) Supplementary reportsThe President may transmit from time to time to the Congress supplementary reports on urban policy which shall include such supplementary and revised recommendations as may be appropriate.


(c) Advisory boardTo assist in the preparation of the National Urban Policy Report and any supplementary reports, the President may establish an advisory board, or seek the advice from time to time of temporary advisory boards, the members of whom shall be drawn from among private citizens familiar with the problems of urban areas and from among Federal officials, Governors of States, mayors, county officials, members of State and local legislative bodies, and others qualified to assist in the preparation of such reports.


(d) ReferralThe National Urban Policy Report shall, when transmitted to Congress, be referred in the Senate to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and in the House of Representatives to the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs.


(Pub. L. 91–609, title VII, § 703, Dec. 31, 1970, 84 Stat. 1792; Pub. L. 95–128, title VI, § 601(c), Oct. 12, 1977, 91 Stat. 1143; Pub. L. 102–550, title IX, § 921(2), (3), Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 3883, 3884.)

Amendments1992—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 102–550, § 921(2)(A), substituted “, not later than June 1, 1993, and not later than the first day of June of every odd-numbered year thereafter,” for “during February 1978, and during February of every even-numbered year thereafter,” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (a)(8). Pub. L. 102–550, § 921(2)(B), which directed the substitution of “legislative or administrative proposals—” and subpars. (A) to (I) for “ ‘such’ and all that follows through the end of the sentence”, was executed by making the substitution for “such legislation and administrative actions as may be deemed necessary and desirable.” which followed “such” the second place it appeared to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 102–550, § 921(3), added subsec. (d).
1977—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95–128, § 601(c)(1), inserted provisions in introductory text respecting transmittal of a Report on National Urban Policy to the Congress and struck out prior similar provisions which required the President to utilize the capacity of his office, adequately organized and staffed for the purpose, through an identified unit of the Domestic Council, and of the departments and agencies within the executive branch to collect, analyze, and evaluate such statistics, data, and other information (including demographic, economic, social, land use, environmental, and governmental information) as would enable the President to transmit to the Congress during the month of February 1972 and every other year thereafter a Report on Urban Growth for the preceding two calendar years.
Subsec. (a)(1) to (8). Pub. L. 95–128, § 601(c)(2)–(6), in amending paragraphs, provided as follows:
par. (1), substituted “, statistics, and significant trends relating to the pattern of urban development for the preceding two years” for “and statistics, describing characteristics of urban growth and stabilization and identifying significant trends and developments”;
par. (2), struck out “growth” after “urban” and inserted end text “affecting the well-being of urban areas”;
par. (3), inserted provisions respecting problems experienced by cities with a growth rate equalling or exceeding the national average and redesignated former par. (3) as (4);
par. (4), redesignated former par. (3) as (4), and as so redesignated struck out “growth” before “policy”, and redesignated former par. (4) as (5); and
pars. (5) to (8), redesignated former pars. (4) to (7) as (5) to (8), respectively.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95–128, § 601(c)(7), substituted “urban policy” for “urban growth”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 95–128, § 601(c)(8), substituted “National Urban Policy Report” and “urban areas” for “Report on Urban Growth” and “urban growth”, respectively.


Change of Name
Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives by section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress. Committee on Banking and Financial Services of House of Representatives abolished and replaced by Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred from Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.

Termination of Reporting RequirementsFor termination, effective May 15, 2000, of reporting provisions in subsec. (a) of this section, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104–66, as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and item 1 on page 40 of House Document No. 103–7.


