§ 5340. Apportionments based on growing States and high density States formula factors(a) Definition.—In this section, the term “State” shall mean each of the 50 States of the United States.

(b) Allocation.—Of the amounts made available for each fiscal year under section 5338(b)(2)(M),11 See References in Text note below. the Secretary shall apportion—(1) 50 percent to States and urbanized areas in accordance with subsection (c); and

(2) 50 percent to States and urbanized areas in accordance with subsection (d).


(c) Growing State Apportionments.—(1) Apportionment among states.—The amounts apportioned under subsection (b)(1) shall provide each State with an amount equal to the total amount apportioned multiplied by a ratio equal to the population of that State forecast for the year that is 15 years after the most recent decennial census, divided by the total population of all States forecast for the year that is 15 years after the most recent decennial census. Such forecast shall be based on the population trend for each State between the most recent decennial census and the most recent estimate of population made by the Secretary of Commerce.

(2) Apportionments between urbanized areas and other than urbanized areas in each state.—(A) In general.—The Secretary shall apportion amounts to each State under paragraph (1) so that urbanized areas in that State receive an amount equal to the amount apportioned to that State multiplied by a ratio equal to the sum of the forecast population of all urbanized areas in that State divided by the total forecast population of that State. In making the apportionment under this subparagraph, the Secretary shall utilize any available forecasts made by the State. If no forecasts are available, the Secretary shall utilize data on urbanized areas and total population from the most recent decennial census.

(B) Remaining amounts.—Amounts remaining for each State after apportionment under subparagraph (A) shall be apportioned to that State and added to the amount made available for grants under section 5311.


(3) Apportionments among urbanized areas in each state.—The Secretary shall apportion amounts made available to urbanized areas in each State under paragraph (2)(A) so that each urbanized area receives an amount equal to the amount apportioned under paragraph (2)(A) multiplied by a ratio equal to the population of each urbanized area divided by the sum of populations of all urbanized areas in the State. Amounts apportioned to each urbanized area shall be added to amounts apportioned to that urbanized area under section 5336, and made available for grants under section 5307.


(d) High Density State Apportionments.—Amounts to be apportioned under subsection (b)(2) shall be apportioned as follows:(1) Eligible states.—The Secretary shall designate as eligible for an apportionment under this subsection all States with a population density in excess of 370 persons per square mile.

(2) State urbanized land factor.—For each State qualifying for an apportionment under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall calculate an amount equal to—(A) the total land area of the State (in square miles); multiplied by

(B) 370; multiplied by

(C)(i) the population of the State in urbanized areas; divided by

(ii) the total population of the State.



(3) State apportionment factor.—For each State qualifying for an apportionment under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall calculate an amount equal to the difference between the total population of the State less the amount calculated in paragraph (2).

(4) State apportionment.—Each State qualifying for an apportionment under paragraph (1) shall receive an amount equal to the amount to be apportioned under this subsection multiplied by the amount calculated for the State under paragraph (3) divided by the sum of the amounts calculated under paragraph (3) for all States qualifying for an apportionment under paragraph (1).

(5) Apportionments among urbanized areas in each state.—The Secretary shall apportion amounts made available to each State under paragraph (4) so that each urbanized area receives an amount equal to the amount apportioned under paragraph (4) multiplied by a ratio equal to the population of each urbanized area divided by the sum of populations of all urbanized areas in the State. Amounts apportioned to each urbanized area shall be added to amounts apportioned to that urbanized area under section 5336, and made available for grants under section 5307.


(Added Pub. L. 109–59, title III, § 3038(a), Aug. 10, 2005, 119 Stat. 1636.)


References in TextSection 5338, referred to in subsec. (b), was amended generally by Pub. L. 112–141, div. B, § 20028, July 6, 2012, 126 Stat. 726, and, as so amended, no longer contains a subsec. (b)(2)(M). However, allocations in accordance with this section are described elsewhere in that section.


