§ 5107. Delegation of authority(a) The Secretary shall delegate to the American Bureau of Shipping or other similarly qualified organizations the authority to assign load lines, survey vessels, determine that load lines are marked correctly, and issue load line certificates under this chapter.

(b) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, a decision of an organization delegated authority under subsection (a) of this section related to the assignment of a load line may be appealed to the Secretary.

(c) For a vessel intended to be engaged on a foreign voyage, the Secretary may delegate to another country that is a party to the International Convention on Load Lines, 1966, the authority to assign load lines, survey vessels, determine that the load lines are marked correctly, and issue an International Load Line Certificate (1966).

(d) The Secretary may terminate a delegation made under this section after giving written notice to the organization.

(Pub. L. 99–509, title V, § 5101(2), Oct. 21, 1986, 100 Stat. 1916.)

Historical and Revision NotesRevised section 5107
Source: Section (U.S. Code) 46 App. U.S.C. 86d, 88b.
Section 5107(a) requires the Secretary to delegate the performance of various load line functions to the American Bureau of Shipping or other similarly qualified organizations. In providing for the delegation to a “similarly qualified organization,” the Committee expects that the Secretary will ensure that that organization complies with the same stringent standards and requirements for conducting business that apply to the American Bureau of Shipping.
Section 5107(b) permits an appeal to the Secretary of a decision by an organization that has received delegated authority. This ensures that the Secretary has full oversight of the delegated load line functions.
Section 5107(c) permits the Secretary to delegate various load line functions to another country for vessels that are engaged on a foreign voyage, provided that the country is a party to the International Convention on Load Lines, 1966.
Section 5107(d) clarifies the Secretary’s authority to revoke a delegation at any time without cause. This authority is given so that no delay occurs administratively in revoking a delegation whenever the Secretary decides a revocation is warranted.


