“Sec. 17. [Highways.] (a) The definition of the term ‘State’ in title 23, United States Code, section 101(a), is amended to read as follows:“ ‘The term “State” means any one of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.’


“(b) Sections 103(g) and 105(e) of title 23, United States Code, are repealed.

“(c) Section 103(d) of title 23, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:“ ‘(d) The Interstate System shall be designated within the United States, including the District of Columbia, and it shall not exceed forty-one thousand miles in total extent. It shall be so located as to connect by routes, as direct as practicable, the principal metropolitan areas, cities, and industrial centers, to serve the national defense and, to the greatest extent possible, to connect at suitable border points with routes of continental importance in the Dominion of Canada and the Republic of Mexico. The routes of this system, to the greatest extent possible, shall be selected by joint action of the State highway departments of each State and the adjoining States, subject to the approval by the Secretary as provided in subsection (e) of this section. All highways or routes included in the Interstate System as finally approved, if not already coincident with the primary system, shall be added to said system without regard to the mileage limitation set forth in subsection (b) of this section. This system may be located both in rural and urban areas.’


“(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose of expediting the construction, reconstruction, or improvement, inclusive of necessary bridges and tunnels, of the Interstate System, including extensions thereof through urban areas, designated in accordance with section 103(d) of title 23, United States Code, as amended by section 1 of this Act, the sum of $12,375,000 shall be apportioned to the State of Hawaii out of the sum authorized to be appropriated for the Interstate System for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1962, under the provisions of section 108(b) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1956 (70 Stat. 374), as amended by section 7(a) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958 (72 Stat. 89), such apportionment to be made at the same time such funds are apportioned to other States. The total sum to be apportioned under [former] section 104(b)(5) of title 23, United States Code, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1962, among the States other than Hawaii, shall be reduced by said sum apportioned to the State of Hawaii under this section. The Secretary of Commerce shall apportion funds to the State of Hawaii for the Interstate System for the fiscal year 1963 and subsequent fiscal years pursuant to the provisions of said [former] section 104(b)(5) of title 23, United States Code, and, in preparing the estimates required by that section, he shall take into account the apportionment made to the State of Hawaii under this section.

“(e) Section 127 of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end thereof the following sentence: ‘With respect to the State of Hawaii, laws or regulations in effect on February 1, 1960, shall be applicable for the purposes of this section in lieu of those in effect on July 1, 1956.’

