§ 13961. Research agenda(a) Request for contractThe Attorney General shall request the National Academy of Sciences, through its National Research Council, to enter into a contract to develop a research agenda to increase the understanding and control of violence against women, including rape and domestic violence. In furtherance of the contract, the National Academy shall convene a panel of nationally recognized experts on violence against women, in the fields of law, medicine, criminal justice, and direct services to victims and experts on domestic violence in diverse, ethnic, social, and language minority communities and the social sciences. In setting the agenda, the Academy shall focus primarily on preventive, educative, social, and legal strategies, including addressing the needs of underserved populations.


(b) Declination of requestIf the National Academy of Sciences declines to conduct the study and develop a research agenda, it shall recommend a nonprofit private entity that is qualified to conduct such a study. In that case, the Attorney General shall carry out subsection (a) of this section through the nonprofit private entity recommended by the Academy. In either case, whether the study is conducted by the National Academy of Sciences or by the nonprofit group it recommends, the funds for the contract shall be made available from sums appropriated for the conduct of research by the National Institute of Justice.


(c) ReportThe Attorney General shall ensure that no later than 1 year after September 13, 1994, the study required under subsection (a) of this section is completed and a report describing the findings made is submitted to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.


(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40291, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1939.)

Development of Research Agenda Identified by the Violence Against Women Act of 1994Pub. L. 106–386, div. B, title IV, § 1404, Oct. 28, 2000, 114 Stat. 1514, provided that:
“(a) In General.—The Attorney General shall—“(1) direct the National Institute of Justice, in consultation and coordination with the Bureau of Justice Statistics and the National Academy of Sciences, through its National Research Council, to develop a research agenda based on the recommendations contained in the report entitled ‘Understanding Violence Against Women’ of the National Academy of Sciences; and

“(2) not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2000], in consultation with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, submit to Congress a report which shall include—“(A) a description of the research agenda developed under paragraph (1) and a plan to implement that agenda; and

“(B) recommendations for priorities in carrying out that agenda to most effectively advance knowledge about and means by which to prevent or reduce violence against women.



“(b) Authorization of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.”





