§ 2304. Definitions
The intent of Congress in the definitions as given in this section should be construed from the words or phrases used in the definitions. As used in this chapter—(a) The term “Commission” means the Atomic Energy Commission.

(b) The term “community” means that area at—(1) Oak Ridge, Tennessee, designated on a map on file at the principal office of the Commission, entitled “Minimum Geographic Area, Oak Ridge, Tennessee”, bearing the legend “Boundary Line, Minimum Geographic Area, Oak Ridge, Tennessee” and marked “Approved, 21 April 1955, K. D. Nichols, General Manager”; or

(2) Richland, Washington, designated on a map on file at the principal office of the Commission, entitled “Minimum Geographic Area, Richland, Washington”, bearing the legend “Boundary Line, Minimum Geographic Area, Richland, Washington” and marked “Approved, 21 April 1955, K. D. Nichols, General Manager;” or

(3) Los Alamos, New Mexico, designated on a map on file at the principal office of the Commission, entitled “Minimum Geographic Area, Los Alamos, New Mexico,” bearing the legend “Boundary Line, Minimum Geographic Area, Los Alamos, New Mexico” and marked “Approved, April 5, 1962, A. R. Luedecke, General Manager.”


(c) The term “house” includes the lot on which the house stands.

(d) The term “member of a family” means any person who, on the first offering date, resides in the same dwelling unit with one or more of the following relatives (including those having the same relationship through marriage or legal adoption): spouse, father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, brother, sister, son, daughter, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, or first cousin.

(e) The term “mortgage” shall include deeds of trust and such other classes of lien as are given to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of real estate under the laws of the State in which the real estate is located.

(f) The term “municipal installation” includes, without limitation, schools, hospitals, police and fire protection systems, sewerage and refuse disposal plants, water supply and distribution installations, streets and roads, libraries, parks, playgrounds and recreational means, municipal government buildings, other properties suitable for municipal or comparable local public service purposes, and any fixtures, equivalent, or other property appropriate to the operation, maintenance or repair of the foregoing.

(g) The term “occupant” means a person who, on the date on which the property in question is first offered for sale, is entitled to residential occupancy of the Government-owned house in question, or of a family dwelling unit in such house, in accordance with a lease or license agreement with the Commission or its property-management contractor.

(h) The term “offering date” means the date the property in question is offered for sale.

(i) The term “project area” means that area which on August 4, 1955, constitutes the Federal area at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, or Hanford, Washington, or that area which, on the date Los Alamos is included within this chapter, constitutes the County of Los Alamos, New Mexico, excluding therefrom, however, that land which is, on said date, under the administrative control of the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior.

(j) The term “project-connected person” means any person who, on the first offering date, is regularly employed at the project area in one of the following capacities:(1) An officer or employee of the Commission or any of its contractors or subcontractors, or of the United States or any agency thereof (including members of the Armed Forces), or of a State or political subdivision or agency thereof;

(2) An officer or employee employed at a school or hospital located in the project area;

(3) A person engaged in or employed in the project area by any professional, commercial, or industrial enterprise occupying premises located in the project area; or

(4) An officer or employee of any church or nonprofit organization occupying premises located in the project area.


(k) The term “resident” means any person who, on the date on which the property in question is first offered for sale is either—(1) an occupant in a residential unit designated for sale at the community, or

(2) a project-connected person who is entitled, in accordance with a lease or similar agreement, to residential occupancy of privately owned rental housing in the community.


(l) The term “utility” means any electrical distribution system, any natural gas distribution system, any public transportation system, or any public communication system, and any fixtures, equipment, or other property appropriate to the operation, maintenance or repair of the foregoing.

(m) The terms “single” and “single family” when used in connection with “house” or “residential property” shall include each separate unit of a residential structure which the Commission has classified as a residential structure containing two or more separate single family units pursuant to section 2331(c) of this title.

(Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543, ch. 2, § 21, 69 Stat. 473; Pub. L. 87–719, §§ 1–4, Sept. 28, 1962, 76 Stat. 664.)

Amendments1962—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 87–719, § 1, added cl. (3).
Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 87–719, § 2, included in definition of “project area” the County of Los Alamos, New Mexico, excluding land under administrative control of the National Park Service.
Subsec. (l). Pub. L. 87–719, § 3, included in definition of “utility” any natural gas distribution system.
Subsec. (m). Pub. L. 87–719, § 4, added subsec. (m).


Transfer of Functions
Atomic Energy Commission abolished and functions transferred by sections 5814 and 5841 of this title. See also Transfer of Functions notes set out under those sections.


