“SEC. 202. FEDERAL AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES.“(a) In General.—The head of each agency shall be responsible for—“(1) complying with the requirements of this Act [see Tables for classification] (including the amendments made by this Act), the related information resource management policies and guidance established by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the related information technology standards promulgated by the Secretary of Commerce;

“(2) ensuring that the information resource management policies and guidance established under this Act by the Director, and the related information technology standards promulgated by the Secretary of Commerce are communicated promptly and effectively to all relevant officials within their agency; and

“(3) supporting the efforts of the Director and the Administrator of the General Services Administration to develop, maintain, and promote an integrated Internet-based system of delivering Federal Government information and services to the public under section 204.


“(b) Performance Integration.—“(1) Agencies shall develop performance measures that demonstrate how electronic government enables progress toward agency objectives, strategic goals, and statutory mandates.

“(2) In measuring performance under this section, agencies shall rely on existing data collections to the extent practicable.

“(3) Areas of performance measurement that agencies should consider include—“(A) customer service;

“(B) agency productivity; and

“(C) adoption of innovative information technology, including the appropriate use of commercial best practices.


“(4) Agencies shall link their performance goals, as appropriate, to key groups, including citizens, businesses, and other governments, and to internal Federal Government operations.

“(5) As appropriate, agencies shall work collectively in linking their performance goals to groups identified under paragraph (4) and shall use information technology in delivering Government information and services to those groups.


“(c) Avoiding Diminished Access.—When promulgating policies and implementing programs regarding the provision of Government information and services over the Internet, agency heads shall consider the impact on persons without access to the Internet, and shall, to the extent practicable—“(1) ensure that the availability of Government information and services has not been diminished for individuals who lack access to the Internet; and

“(2) pursue alternate modes of delivery that make Government information and services more accessible to individuals who do not own computers or lack access to the Internet.


“(d) Accessibility to People With Disabilities.—All actions taken by Federal departments and agencies under this Act [see Tables for classification] shall be in compliance with section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d).

“(e) Sponsored Activities.—Agencies shall sponsor activities that use information technology to engage the public in the development and implementation of policies and programs.

“(f) Chief Information Officers.—The Chief Information Officer of each of the agencies designated under chapter 36 of title 44, United States Code (as added by this Act) shall be responsible for—“(1) participating in the functions of the Chief Information Officers Council; and

“(2) monitoring the implementation, within their respective agencies, of information technology standards promulgated by the Secretary of Commerce, including common standards for interconnectivity and interoperability, categorization of Federal Government electronic information, and computer system efficiency and security.


“(g) E-Government Status Report.—“(1) In general.—Each agency shall compile and submit to the Director an annual E-Government Status Report on—“(A) the status of the implementation by the agency of electronic government initiatives;

“(B) compliance by the agency with this Act [see Tables for classification]; and

“(C) how electronic Government initiatives of the agency improve performance in delivering programs to constituencies.


“(2) Submission.—Each agency shall submit an annual report under this subsection—“(A) to the Director at such time and in such manner as the Director requires;

“(B) consistent with related reporting requirements; and

“(C) which addresses any section in this title relevant to that agency.



“(h) Use of Technology.—Nothing in this Act [see Tables for classification] supersedes the responsibility of an agency to use or manage information technology to deliver Government information and services that fulfill the statutory mission and programs of the agency.

“(i) National Security Systems.—“(1) Inapplicability.—Except as provided under paragraph (2), this title does not apply to national security systems as defined in section 11103 of title 40, United States Code.

“(2) Applicability.—This section, section 203, and section 214 do apply to national security systems to the extent practicable and consistent with law.


