§ 13851. Definitions
As used in this part:(1) Community development corporationThe term “community development corporation” means a private, nonprofit corporation whose board of directors is comprised of business, civic and community leaders, and whose principal purpose includes the provision of low-income housing or community economic development projects that primarily benefit low-income individuals and communities.


(2) Local and private sector contributionThe term “local and private sector contribution” means the funds available at the local level (by private financial institutions, State and local governments) or by any private philanthropic organization and private, nonprofit organizations that will be committed and used solely for the purpose of financing private business enterprises in conjunction with amounts provided under this part.


(3) Population-losing communityThe term “population-losing community” means any county in which the net population loss is at least 7 percent from April 1, 1980 to April 1, 1990, as reported by the Bureau of the Census.


(4) Private business enterpriseThe term “private business enterprise” means any business enterprise that is engaged in the manufacture of a product, provision of a service, construction or development of a facility, or that is involved in some other commercial, manufacturing or industrial activity, and that agrees to target job opportunities stemming from investments authorized under this part to certain individuals.


(5) Target areaThe term “target area” means any area defined in an application for assistance under this part that has a population whose income does not exceed the median for the area within which the target area is located.


(6) Very low-income communityThe term “very low-income community” means a community in which the median income of the residents of such community does not exceed 50 percent of the median income of the area.


(Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 31131, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1887.)
