“SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.“In this Act:“(1) ‘Archivist’ means the Archivist of the United States.

“(2) ‘Assassination record’ means a record that is related to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, that was created or made available for use by, obtained by, or otherwise came into the possession of—“(A) the Commission to Investigate the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy (the ‘Warren Commission’);

“(B) the Commission on Central Intelligence Agency Activities Within the United States (the ‘Rockefeller Commission’);

“(C) the Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (the ‘Church Committee’);

“(D) the Select Committee on Intelligence (the ‘Pike Committee’) of the House of Representatives;

“(E) the Select Committee on Assassinations (the ‘House Assassinations Committee’) of the House of Representatives;

“(F) the Library of Congress;

“(G) the National Archives and Records Administration;

“(H) any Presidential library;

“(I) any Executive agency;

“(J) any independent agency;

“(K) any other office of the Federal Government; and

“(L) any State or local law enforcement office that provided support or assistance or performed work in connection with a Federal inquiry into the assassination of President John F. Kennedy,


but does not include the autopsy records donated by the Kennedy family to the National Archives pursuant to a deed of gift regulating access to those records, or copies and reproductions made from such records.

“(3) ‘Collection’ means the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection established under section 4.

“(4) ‘Executive agency’ means an Executive agency as defined in subsection 552(f) of title 5, United States Code, and includes any Executive department, military department, Government corporation, Government controlled corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Government, including the Executive Office of the President, or any independent regulatory agency.

“(5) ‘Government office’ means any office of the Federal Government that has possession or control of assassination records, including—“(A) the House Committee on Administration with regard to the Select Committee on Assassinations of the records of the House of Representatives;

“(B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate with regard to records of the Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities and other assassination records;

“(C) the Library of Congress;

“(D) the National Archives as custodian of assassination records that it has obtained or possesses, including the Commission to Investigate the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy and the Commission on Central Intelligence Agency Activities in the United States; and

“(E) any other executive branch office or agency, and any independent agency.


“(6) ‘Identification aid’ means the written description prepared for each record as required in section 4.

“(7) ‘National Archives’ means the National Archives and Records Administration and all components thereof, including Presidential archival depositories established under section 2112 of title 44, United States Code.

“(8) ‘Official investigation’ means the reviews of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy conducted by any Presidential commission, any authorized congressional committee, and any Government agency either independently, at the request of any Presidential commission or congressional committee, or at the request of any Government official.

“(9) ‘Originating body’ means the Executive agency, government commission, congressional committee, or other governmental entity that created a record or particular information within a record.

“(10) ‘Public interest’ means the compelling interest in the prompt public disclosure of assassination records for historical and governmental purposes and for the purpose of fully informing the American people about the history surrounding the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

“(11) ‘Record’ includes a book, paper, map, photograph, sound or video recording, machine readable material, computerized, digitized, or electronic information, regardless of the medium on which it is stored, or other documentary material, regardless of its physical form or characteristics.

“(12) ‘Review Board’ means the Assassination Records Review Board established by section 7.

“(13) ‘Third agency’ means a Government agency that originated an assassination record that is in the possession of another agency.

