§ 247b–21. Mosquito-borne diseases; coordination grants to States; assessment and control grants to political subdivisions(a) Coordination grants to States; assessment grants to political subdivisions(1) In generalWith respect to mosquito control programs to prevent and control mosquito-borne diseases (referred to in this section as “control programs”), the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may make grants to States for the purpose of—(A) coordinating control programs in the State involved; and

(B) assisting such State in making grants to political subdivisions of the State to conduct assessments to determine the immediate needs in such subdivisions for control programs, and to develop, on the basis of such assessments, plans for carrying out control programs in the subdivisions.


(2) Preference in making grantsIn making grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give preference to States that have one or more political subdivisions with an incidence, prevalence, or high risk of mosquito-borne disease, or a population of infected mosquitoes, that is substantial relative to political subdivisions in other States.


(3) Certain requirementsA grant may be made under paragraph (1) only if—(A) the State involved has developed, or agrees to develop, a plan for coordinating control programs in the State, and the plan takes into account any assessments or plans described in subsection (b)(3) of this section that have been conducted or developed, respectively, by political subdivisions in the State;

(B) in developing such plan, the State consulted or will consult (as the case may be under subparagraph (A)) with political subdivisions in the State that are carrying out or planning to carry out control programs;

(C) the State agrees to monitor control programs in the State in order to ensure that the programs are carried out in accordance with such plan, with priority given to coordination of control programs in political subdivisions described in paragraph (2) that are contiguous;

(D) the State agrees that the State will make grants to political subdivisions as described in paragraph (1)(B), and that such a grant will not exceed $10,000; and

(E) the State agrees that the grant will be used to supplement, and not supplant, State and local funds available for the purpose described in paragraph (1).


(4) Reports to SecretaryA grant may be made under paragraph (1) only if the State involved agrees that, promptly after the end of the fiscal year for which the grant is made, the State will submit to the Secretary a report that—(A) describes the activities of the State under the grant; and

(B) contains an evaluation of whether the control programs of political subdivisions in the State were effectively coordinated with each other, which evaluation takes into account any reports that the State received under subsection (b)(5) of this section from such subdivisions.


(5) Number of grantsA State may not receive more than one grant under paragraph (1).



(b) Prevention and control grants to political subdivisions(1) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may make grants to political subdivisions of States or consortia of political subdivisions of States, for the operation of control programs.


(2) Preference in making grantsIn making grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give preference to a political subdivision or consortium of political subdivisions that—(A) has—(i) a history of elevated incidence or prevalence of mosquito-borne disease;

(ii) a population of infected mosquitoes; or

(iii) met criteria determined by the Secretary to suggest an increased risk of elevated incidence or prevalence of mosquito-borne disease in the pending fiscal year;


(B) demonstrates to the Secretary that such political subdivision or consortium of political subdivisions will, if appropriate to the mosquito circumstances involved, effectively coordinate the activities of the control programs with contiguous political subdivisions;

(C) demonstrates to the Secretary (directly or through State officials) that the State in which such a political subdivision or consortium of political subdivisions is located has identified or will identify geographic areas in such State that have a significant need for control programs and will effectively coordinate such programs in such areas; and

(D) is located in a State that has received a grant under subsection (a) of this section.


(3) Requirement of assessment and planA grant may be made under paragraph (1) only if the political subdivision or consortium of political subdivisions involved—(A) has conducted an assessment to determine the immediate needs in such subdivision or consortium for a control program, including an entomological survey of potential mosquito breeding areas; and

(B) has, on the basis of such assessment, developed a plan for carrying out such a program.


(4) Requirement of matching funds(A) In generalWith respect to the costs of a control program to be carried out under paragraph (1) by a political subdivision or consortium of political subdivisions, a grant under such paragraph may be made only if the subdivision or consortium agrees to make available (directly or through donations from public or private entities) non-Federal contributions toward such costs in an amount that is not less than ⅓ of such costs ($1 for each $2 of Federal funds provided in the grant).


(B) Determination of amount contributedNon-Federal contributions required in subparagraph (A) may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts provided by the Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized to any significant extent by the Federal Government, may not be included in determining the amount of such non-Federal contributions.


(C) WaiverThe Secretary may waive the requirement established in subparagraph (A) if the Secretary determines that extraordinary economic conditions in the political subdivision or consortium of political subdivisions involved justify the waiver.



(5) Reports to SecretaryA grant may be made under paragraph (1) only if the political subdivision or consortium of political subdivisions involved agrees that, promptly after the end of the fiscal year for which the grant is made, the subdivision or consortium will submit to the Secretary, and to the State within which the subdivision or consortium is located, a report that describes the control program and contains an evaluation of whether the program was effective.


(6) Amount of grant; number of grants(A) Amount of grant(i) Single political subdivisionA grant under paragraph (1) awarded to a political subdivision for a fiscal year may not exceed $100,000.


(ii) ConsortiumA grant under paragraph (1) awarded to a consortium of 2 or more political subdivisions may not exceed $110,000 for each political subdivision. A consortium is not required to provide matching funds under paragraph (4) for any amounts received by such consortium in excess of amounts each political subdivision would have received separately.


(iii) Waiver of requirementA grant may exceed the maximum amount in clause (i) or (ii) if the Secretary determines that the geographical area covered by a political subdivision or consortium awarded a grant under paragraph (1) has an extreme need due to the size or density of—(I) the human population in such geographical area; or

(II) the mosquito population in such geographical area.



(B) Number of grantsA political subdivision or a consortium of political subdivisions may not receive more than one grant under paragraph (1).




(c) Applications for grantsA grant may be made under subsection (a) or (b) of this section only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary and the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this section.


(d) Technical assistanceAmounts appropriated under subsection (f) of this section may be used by the Secretary to provide training and technical assistance with respect to the planning, development, and operation of assessments and plans under subsection (a) of this section and control programs under subsection (b) of this section. The Secretary may provide such technical assistance directly or through awards of grants or contracts to public and private entities.


(e) Definition of political subdivisionIn this section, the term “political subdivision” means the local political jurisdiction immediately below the level of State government, including counties, parishes, and boroughs. If State law recognizes an entity of general government that functions in lieu of, and is not within, a county, parish, or borough, the Secretary may recognize an area under the jurisdiction of such other entities of general government as a political subdivision for purposes of this section.


(f) Authorization of appropriations(1) In generalFor the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2003, and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2004 through 2007.


(2) Public health emergenciesIn the case of control programs carried out in response to a mosquito-borne disease that constitutes a public health emergency, the authorization of appropriations under paragraph (1) is in addition to applicable authorizations of appropriations under the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002.


(3) Fiscal year 2004 appropriationsFor fiscal year 2004, 50 percent or more of the funds appropriated under paragraph (1) shall be used to award grants to political subdivisions or consortia of political subdivisions under subsection (b) of this section.



(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 317S, as added Pub. L. 108–75, § 2(2), Aug. 15, 2003, 117 Stat. 898.)


References in TextThe Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, referred to in subsec. (f)(2), is Pub. L. 107–188, June 12, 2002, 116 Stat. 594, as amended. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2002 Amendments note set out under section 201 of this title and Tables.


