§ 291j–2. Allocation among States(a) Allotment regulationsFor each fiscal year, the total amount of principal of loans to nonprofit private agencies which may be guaranteed or loans to public agencies which may be directly made under this part shall be allotted by the Secretary among the States, in accordance with regulations, on the basis of each State’s relative population, financial need, need for construction of the facilities referred to in section 291j–1(a) of this title, and need for modernization of such facilities.


(b) ReallotmentAny amount allotted under subsection (a) of this section to a State for a fiscal year ending before July 1, 1973, and remaining unobligated at the end of such year shall remain available to such State, for the purpose for which made, for the next two fiscal years (and for such years only), and any such amount shall be in addition to the amounts allotted to such State for such purpose for each of such next two fiscal years; except that, with the consent of any such State, any such amount remaining unobligated at the end of the first of such next fiscal year may be reallotted (on such basis as the Secretary deems equitable and consistent with the purposes of this subchapter) to other States which have need therefor. Any amounts so reallotted to a State shall be available for the purposes for which made until the close of the second such next two fiscal years and shall be in addition to the amount allotted and available to such State for the same period.


(c) Time of availability of amounts for subsequent allotmentAny amount allotted or reallotted to a State under this section for a fiscal year shall not, until the expiration of the period during which it is available for obligation, be considered as available for allotment for a subsequent fiscal year.


(d) Modernization or construction commenced on or after January 1, 1968The allotments of any State under subsection (a) of this section for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1971, and the succeeding fiscal year shall also be available to guarantee loans with respect to any project, for modernization or construction of a nonprofit private hospital or other health facility referred to in section 291j–1(a)(1) of this title, if the modernization or construction of such facility was not commenced earlier than January 1, 1968, and if the State certifies and the Secretary finds that without such guaranteed loan such facility could not be completed and begin to operate or could not continue to operate, but with such guaranteed loan would be able to do so: Provided, That this subsection shall not apply to more than two projects in any one State.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title VI, § 622, as added Pub. L. 91–296, title II, § 201, June 30, 1970, 84 Stat. 345.)
