§ 12903. General authority(a) Grants authorizedThe Secretary shall, to the extent of amounts approved in appropriations Acts under section 12912 of this title, make grants to States, units of general local government, and nonprofit organizations.


(b) Implementation of eligible activitiesA grantee shall carry out eligible activities under section 12904 of this title through project sponsors. Any grantee that is a State that enters into a contract with a nonprofit organization to carry out eligible activities in a locality shall obtain the approval of the unit of general local government for the locality before entering into the contract.


(c) Allocation of resources(1) Formula allocationThe Secretary shall allocate 90 percent of the amounts approved in appropriation Acts under section 12912 of this title among States and cities whose most recent comprehensive housing affordability strategy (or abbreviated strategy) has been approved by the Secretary under section 12705 of this title. Such amounts shall be allocated as follows:(A) 75 percent among—(i) cities that are the most populous unit of general local government in a metropolitan statistical area having a population greater than 500,000 and more than 1,500 cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome; and

(ii) States with more than 1,500 cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome outside of metropolitan statistical areas described in clause (i); and


(B) 25 percent among cities that (i) are the most populous unit of general local government in a metropolitan statistical area having a population greater than 500,000 and more than 1,500 cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, and (ii) have a higher than average per capita incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.


A single city may receive assistance allocated under subparagraph (A) and subparagraph (B). For purposes of allocating amounts under this paragraph for any fiscal year, the number of cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome shall be the number of such cases reported to and confirmed by the Director of the Centers for Disease Control of the Public Health Service as of March 31 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the amounts are appropriated and to be allocated.

(2) Minimum grantSubject only to the availability of amounts pursuant to appropriations Acts under section 12912 of this title, for each fiscal year each eligible grantee under paragraph (1) shall receive funding according to its proportionate share of the total, except that each entity shall receive a minimum allocation of $200,000 from subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) combined, and any increase this entails from the formula amount will be deducted from all other allocations exceeding $200,000 on a pro rata basis. If allocation under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) would allocate less than $200,000 for any State, the allocation for such State shall be $200,000 and the amount of the increase under this sentence shall be deducted on a pro rata basis from the allocations of the other States, except that a reduction under this subparagraph may not reduce the amount allocated to any eligible entity to less than $200,000.


(3) Nonformula allocation(A) In generalThe Secretary shall allocate 10 percent of the amounts appropriated under section 12912 of this title among—(i) States and units of general local government that do not qualify for allocation of amounts under paragraph (1); and

(ii) States, units of general local government, and nonprofit organizations, to fund special projects of national significance.


(B) SelectionIn selecting projects under this paragraph, the Secretary shall consider (i) relative numbers of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome cases and per capita acquired immunodeficiency syndrome incidence; (ii) housing needs of eligible persons in the community; (iii) extent of local planning and coordination of housing programs for eligible persons; and (iv) the likelihood of the continuation of State and local efforts.


(C) National significance projectsFor the purpose of subparagraph (A)(ii), in selecting projects of national significance the Secretary shall consider (i) the need to assess the effectiveness of a particular model for providing supportive housing for eligible persons; (ii) the innovative nature of the proposed activity; and (iii) the potential replicability of the proposed activity in other similar localities or nationally.




(d) ApplicationsFunds made available under this section shall be allocated among applications submitted by applicants and approved by the Secretary. Applications for assistance under this section shall be submitted by an applicant in such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Secretary shall establish. Such applications shall contain—(1) a description of the proposed activities;

(2) a description of the size and characteristics of the population that would be served by the proposed activities;

(3) a description of the public and private resources that are expected to be made available in connection with the proposed activities;

(4) assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that any property purchased, leased, rehabilitated, renovated, or converted with assistance under this section shall be operated for not less than 10 years for the purpose specified in the application, except as otherwise specified in this chapter;

(5) evidence in a form acceptable to the Secretary that the proposed activities will meet urgent needs that are not being met by available public and private sources; and

(6) such other information or certifications that the Secretary determines to be necessary to achieve the purposes of this section.


(e) Additional requirement for metropolitan areasIn addition to the other requirements of this section, to be eligible for a grant to a metropolitan area under this section, the major city, urban county, and any city with a population of 50,000 or more in that metropolitan area shall establish or designate a governmental agency or organization for receipt and use of amounts received from a grant under this section and shall submit to the Secretary, together with the application under subsection (d) of this section a proposal for the operation of such agency or organization.


(f) Additional requirement for city formula granteesIn addition to the other requirements of this section, to be eligible for a grant pursuant to subsection (c)(1) of this section, a city shall provide such assurances as the Secretary may require that any grant amounts received will be allocated among eligible activities in a manner that addresses the needs within the metropolitan statistical area in which the city is located, including areas not within the jurisdiction of the city. Any such city shall coordinate with other units of general local government located within the metropolitan statistical area to provide such assurances and comply with the assurances.


(Pub. L. 101–625, title VIII, § 854, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4376; Pub. L. 102–550, title VI, § 606(d), (j)(2), Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 3807, 3810.)

Amendments1992—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(d)(1), substituted “, units of general local government, and nonprofit organizations” for “and units of general local government”.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(d)(2), added subsec. (b) and struck out former subsec. (b) which read as follows: “Eligibility.—A jurisdiction shall be eligible to receive a grant only if it has obtained an approved housing strategy (or an approved abbreviated housing strategy) in accordance with section 12705 of this title. A grantee shall carry out activities authorized under this chapter through contracts with project sponsors, except that a grantee that is a State shall obtain the approval of the unit of general local government for the locality in which a project is to be located prior to entering into such contracts.”
Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(d)(3), added par. (1) and struck out former par. (1) which read as follows: “In general.—90 percent of the amounts approved in appropriations Acts under section 12912 of this title shall be allocated among eligible grantees on the basis of the incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Of the amounts made available under the previous sentence, the Secretary shall allocate—
“(A) 75 percent among units of general local government located in metropolitan statistical areas with populations in excess of 500,000 and more than 1,500 cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and States with more than 1,500 cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome outside of metropolitan statistical areas described in subparagraph (A), and
“(B) 25 percent among units of general local government in metropolitan statistical areas with populations in excess of 500,000 and more than 1,500 cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, that have a higher than average per capita incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.”
Subsec. (c)(3). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(d)(4)(A), substituted “Nonformula allocation” for “Noneligible grantees” in heading.
Subsec. (c)(3)(A). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(d)(4)(B), added subpar. (A) and struck out former subpar. (A) which read as follows: “In general.—10 percent of the amounts appropriated under section 12912 of this title shall be distributed to grantees and recipients by the Secretary—
“(i) to meet housing needs in States and localities that do not qualify under paragraph (1), or that do qualify under paragraph (1) but do not have an approved housing strategy under section 12705 of this title, and
“(ii) to fund special projects of national significance.”
Subsec. (c)(3)(B), (C). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(j)(2), substituted “eligible persons” for “persons with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome” wherever appearing.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(d)(5), substituted “applications submitted by applicants and approved by the Secretary” for “approvable applications submitted by eligible applicants” in first sentence.
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(d)(6), substituted “other requirements of this section” for “requirements of subsection (b) of this section”.
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(d)(7), added subsec. (f).


Change of Name
Centers for Disease Control changed to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention by Pub. L. 102–531, title III, § 312, Oct. 27, 1992, 106 Stat. 3504.


