§ 13742. Ounce of prevention grant program(a) In generalThe Council may make grants for—(1) summer and after-school (including weekend and holiday) education and recreation programs;

(2) mentoring, tutoring, and other programs involving participation by adult role models (such as D.A.R.E. America);

(3) programs assisting and promoting employability and job placement; and

(4) prevention and treatment programs to reduce substance abuse, child abuse, and adolescent pregnancy, including outreach programs for at-risk families.


(b) ApplicantsApplicants may be Indian tribal governments, cities, counties, or other municipalities, school boards, colleges and universities, private nonprofit entities, or consortia of eligible applicants. Applicants must show that a planning process has occurred that has involved organizations, institutions, and residents of target areas, including young people, and that there has been cooperation between neighborhood-based entities, municipality-wide bodies, and local private-sector representatives. Applicants must demonstrate the substantial involvement of neighborhood-based entities in the carrying out of the proposed activities. Proposals must demonstrate that a broad base of collaboration and coordination will occur in the implementation of the proposed activities, involving cooperation among youth-serving organizations, schools, health and social service providers, employers, law enforcement professionals, local government, and residents of target areas, including young people. Applications shall be geographically based in particular neighborhoods or sections of municipalities or particular segments of rural areas, and applications shall demonstrate how programs will serve substantial proportions of children and youth resident in the target area with activities designed to have substantial impact on their lives.


(c) PriorityIn making such grants, the Council shall give preference to coalitions consisting of a broad spectrum of community-based and social service organizations that have a coordinated team approach to reducing gang membership and the effects of substance abuse, and providing alternatives to at-risk youth.


(d) Federal share(1) In generalThe Federal share of a grant made under this part 11 See References in Text note below. may not exceed 75 percent of the total costs of the projects described in the applications submitted under subsection (b) of this section for the fiscal year for which the projects receive assistance under this subchapter.


(2) WaiverThe Council may waive the 25 percent matching requirement under paragraph (1) upon making a determination that a waiver is equitable in view of the financial circumstances affecting the ability of the applicant to meet that requirement.


(3) Non-Federal shareThe non-Federal share of such costs may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, and services.


(4) Nonsupplanting requirementFunds made available under this subchapter to a governmental entity shall not be used to supplant State or local funds, or in the case of Indian tribal governments, funds supplied by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, but shall be used to increase the amount of funds that would, in the absence of Federal funds received under this subchapter, be made available from State or local sources, or in the case of Indian tribal governments, from funds supplied by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.


(5) EvaluationThe Council shall conduct a thorough evaluation of the programs assisted under this subchapter.



(Pub. L. 103–322, title III, § 30102, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1837.)


References in TextThis part, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), appearing in the original is unidentifiable because subtitle A of title III of Pub. L. 103–322 does not contain parts.
This subchapter, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), (4), (5), was in the original “this title”, meaning title III of Pub. L. 103–322, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1836, which enacted this subchapter, sections 3796ff to 3796ff–4 of this title, and sections 6701 to 6720 of Title 31, Money and Finance, amended sections 3791, 3793, and 3797 of this title, sections 2502 to 2504, 2506, and 2512 of Title 16, Conservation, and section 3621 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, and enacted provisions set out as notes under section 13701 of this title and sections 6701 and 6702 of Title 31. For complete classification of title III to the Code, see Tables.


