§ 18001. Immediate access to insurance for uninsured individuals with a preexisting condition(a) In generalNot later than 90 days after March 23, 2010, the Secretary shall establish a temporary high risk health insurance pool program to provide health insurance coverage for eligible individuals during the period beginning on the date on which such program is established and ending on January 1, 2014.


(b) Administration(1) In generalThe Secretary may carry out the program under this section directly or through contracts to eligible entities.


(2) Eligible entitiesTo be eligible for a contract under paragraph (1), an entity shall—(A) be a State or nonprofit private entity;

(B) submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require; and

(C) agree to utilize contract funding to establish and administer a qualified high risk pool for eligible individuals.


(3) Maintenance of effortTo be eligible to enter into a contract with the Secretary under this subsection, a State shall agree not to reduce the annual amount the State expended for the operation of one or more State high risk pools during the year preceding the year in which such contract is entered into.



(c) Qualified high risk pool(1) In generalAmounts made available under this section shall be used to establish a qualified high risk pool that meets the requirements of paragraph (2).


(2) RequirementsA qualified high risk pool meets the requirements of this paragraph if such pool—(A) provides to all eligible individuals health insurance coverage that does not impose any preexisting condition exclusion with respect to such coverage;

(B) provides health insurance coverage—(i) in which the issuer’s share of the total allowed costs of benefits provided under such coverage is not less than 65 percent of such costs; and

(ii) that has an out of pocket limit not greater than the applicable amount described in section 223(c)(2) of title 26 for the year involved, except that the Secretary may modify such limit if necessary to ensure the pool meets the actuarial value limit under clause (i);


(C) ensures that with respect to the premium rate charged for health insurance coverage offered to eligible individuals through the high risk pool, such rate shall—(i) except as provided in clause (ii), vary only as provided for under section 300gg of this title (as amended by this Act and notwithstanding the date on which such amendments take effect);

(ii) vary on the basis of age by a factor of not greater than 4 to 1; and

(iii) be established at a standard rate for a standard population; and


(D) meets any other requirements determined appropriate by the Secretary.



(d) Eligible individualAn individual shall be deemed to be an eligible individual for purposes of this section if such individual—(1) is a citizen or national of the United States or is lawfully present in the United States (as determined in accordance with section 18081 of this title);

(2) has not been covered under creditable coverage (as defined in section 300gg(c)(1) of this title as in effect on March 23, 2010) during the 6-month period prior to the date on which such individual is applying for coverage through the high risk pool; and

(3) has a pre-existing condition, as determined in a manner consistent with guidance issued by the Secretary.


(e) Protection against dumping risk by insurers(1) In generalThe Secretary shall establish criteria for determining whether health insurance issuers and employment-based health plans have discouraged an individual from remaining enrolled in prior coverage based on that individual’s health status.


(2) SanctionsAn issuer or employment-based health plan shall be responsible for reimbursing the program under this section for the medical expenses incurred by the program for an individual who, based on criteria established by the Secretary, the Secretary finds was encouraged by the issuer to disenroll from health benefits coverage prior to enrolling in coverage through the program. The criteria shall include at least the following circumstances:(A) In the case of prior coverage obtained through an employer, the provision by the employer, group health plan, or the issuer of money or other financial consideration for disenrolling from the coverage.

(B) In the case of prior coverage obtained directly from an issuer or under an employment-based health plan—(i) the provision by the issuer or plan of money or other financial consideration for disenrolling from the coverage; or

(ii) in the case of an individual whose premium for the prior coverage exceeded the premium required by the program (adjusted based on the age factors applied to the prior coverage)—(I) the prior coverage is a policy that is no longer being actively marketed (as defined by the Secretary) by the issuer; or

(II) the prior coverage is a policy for which duration of coverage form 11 So in original. Probably should be “from”. issue or health status are factors that can be considered in determining premiums at renewal.




(3) ConstructionNothing in this subsection shall be construed as constituting exclusive remedies for violations of criteria established under paragraph (1) or as preventing States from applying or enforcing such paragraph or other provisions under law with respect to health insurance issuers.



(f) OversightThe Secretary shall establish—(1) an appeals process to enable individuals to appeal a determination under this section; and

(2) procedures to protect against waste, fraud, and abuse.


(g) Funding; termination of authority(1) In generalThere is appropriated to the Secretary, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $5,000,000,000 to pay claims against (and the administrative costs of) the high risk pool under this section that are in excess of the amount of premiums collected from eligible individuals enrolled in the high risk pool. Such funds shall be available without fiscal year limitation.


(2) Insufficient fundsIf the Secretary estimates for any fiscal year that the aggregate amounts available for the payment of the expenses of the high risk pool will be less than the actual amount of such expenses, the Secretary shall make such adjustments as are necessary to eliminate such deficit.


(3) Termination of authority(A) In generalExcept as provided in subparagraph (B), coverage of eligible individuals under a high risk pool in a State shall terminate on January 1, 2014.


(B) Transition to ExchangeThe Secretary shall develop procedures to provide for the transition of eligible individuals enrolled in health insurance coverage offered through a high risk pool established under this section into qualified health plans offered through an Exchange. Such procedures shall ensure that there is no lapse in coverage with respect to the individual and may extend coverage after the termination of the risk pool involved, if the Secretary determines necessary to avoid such a lapse.



(4) LimitationsThe Secretary has the authority to stop taking applications for participation in the program under this section to comply with the funding limitation provided for in paragraph (1).


(5) Relation to State lawsThe standards established under this section shall supersede any State law or regulation (other than State licensing laws or State laws relating to plan solvency) with respect to qualified high risk pools which are established in accordance with this section.



(Pub. L. 111–148, title I, § 1101, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 141.)


References in TextThis Act, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(C)(i), is Pub. L. 111–148, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 119, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out below and Tables.
The date on which such amendments take effect, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(C)(i), is the date on which the amendments by Pub. L. 111–148 to section 300gg of this title take effect, which is Jan. 1, 2014. See section 1255 of Pub. L. 111–148, set out as an Effective Date note under section 300gg of this title.

Short TitlePub. L. 111–148, § 1(a), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 119, provided that: “This Act [see Tables for classification] may be cited as the ‘Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act’.”



