§ 1397ll. Optional coverage of targeted low-income pregnant women through a State plan amendment(a) In generalSubject to the succeeding provisions of this section, a State may elect through an amendment to its State child health plan under section 1397bb of this title to provide pregnancy-related assistance under such plan for targeted low-income pregnant women.


(b) ConditionsA State may only elect the option under subsection (a) if the following conditions are satisfied:(1) Minimum income eligibility levels for pregnant women and childrenThe State has established an income eligibility level—(A) for pregnant women under subsection (a)(10)(A)(i)(III), (a)(10)(A)(i)(IV), or (l)(1)(A) of section 1396a of this title that is at least 185 percent (or such higher percent as the State has in effect with regard to pregnant women under this subchapter) of the poverty line applicable to a family of the size involved, but in no case lower than the percent in effect under any such subsection as of July 1, 2008; and

(B) for children under 19 years of age under this subchapter (or subchapter XIX) that is at least 200 percent of the poverty line applicable to a family of the size involved.


(2) No CHIP income eligibility level for pregnant women lower than the State’s Medicaid levelThe State does not apply an effective income level for pregnant women under the State plan amendment that is lower than the effective income level (expressed as a percent of the poverty line and considering applicable income disregards) specified under subsection (a)(10)(A)(i)(III), (a)(10)(A)(i)(IV), or (l)(1)(A) of section 1396a of this title, on February 4, 2009, to be eligible for medical assistance as a pregnant woman.


(3) No coverage for higher income pregnant women without covering lower income pregnant womenThe State does not provide coverage for pregnant women with higher family income without covering pregnant women with a lower family income.


(4) Application of requirements for coverage of targeted low-income childrenThe State provides pregnancy-related assistance for targeted low-income pregnant women in the same manner, and subject to the same requirements, as the State provides child health assistance for targeted low-income children under the State child health plan, and in addition to providing child health assistance for such women.


(5) No preexisting condition exclusion or waiting periodThe State does not apply any exclusion of benefits for pregnancy-related assistance based on any preexisting condition or any waiting period (including any waiting period imposed to carry out section 1397bb(b)(3)(C) of this title) for receipt of such assistance.


(6) Application of cost-sharing protectionThe State provides pregnancy-related assistance to a targeted low-income woman consistent with the cost-sharing protections under section 1397cc(e) of this title and applies the limitation on total annual aggregate cost sharing imposed under paragraph (3)(B) of such section to the family of such a woman.


(7) No waiting list for childrenThe State does not impose, with respect to the enrollment under the State child health plan of targeted low-income children during the quarter, any enrollment cap or other numerical limitation on enrollment, any waiting list, any procedures designed to delay the consideration of applications for enrollment, or similar limitation with respect to enrollment.



(c) Option to provide presumptive eligibilityA State that elects the option under subsection (a) and satisfies the conditions described in subsection (b) may elect to apply section 1396r–1 of this title (relating to presumptive eligibility for pregnant women) to the State child health plan in the same manner as such section applies to the State plan under subchapter XIX.


(d) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section:(1) Pregnancy-related assistanceThe term “pregnancy-related assistance” has the meaning given the term “child health assistance” in section 1397jj(a) of this title with respect to an individual during the period described in paragraph (2)(A).


(2) Targeted low-income pregnant womanThe term “targeted low-income pregnant woman” means an individual—(A) during pregnancy and through the end of the month in which the 60-day period (beginning on the last day of her pregnancy) ends;

(B) whose family income exceeds 185 percent (or, if higher, the percent applied under subsection (b)(1)(A)) of the poverty line applicable to a family of the size involved, but does not exceed the income eligibility level established under the State child health plan under this subchapter for a targeted low-income child; and

(C) who satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (1)(A), (1)(C), (2), and (3) of section 1397jj(b) of this title in the same manner as a child applying for child health assistance would have to satisfy such requirements.



(e) Automatic enrollment for children born to women receiving pregnancy-related assistanceIf a child is born to a targeted low-income pregnant woman who was receiving pregnancy-related assistance under this section on the date of the child’s birth, the child shall be deemed to have applied for child health assistance under the State child health plan and to have been found eligible for such assistance under such plan or to have applied for medical assistance under subchapter XIX and to have been found eligible for such assistance under such subchapter, as appropriate, on the date of such birth and to remain eligible for such assistance until the child attains 1 year of age. During the period in which a child is deemed under the preceding sentence to be eligible for child health or medical assistance, the child health or medical assistance eligibility identification number of the mother shall also serve as the identification number of the child, and all claims shall be submitted and paid under such number (unless the State issues a separate identification number for the child before such period expires).


(f) States providing assistance through other options(1) Continuation of other options for providing assistanceThe option to provide assistance in accordance with the preceding subsections of this section shall not limit any other option for a State to provide—(A) child health assistance through the application of sections 457.10, 457.350(b)(2), 457.622(c)(5), and 457.626(a)(3) of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect after the final rule adopted by the Secretary and set forth at 67 Fed. Reg. 61956–61974 (October 2, 2002)), or

(B) pregnancy-related services through the application of any waiver authority (as in effect on June 1, 2008).


(2) Clarification of authority to provide postpartum servicesAny State that provides child health assistance under any authority described in paragraph (1) may continue to provide such assistance, as well as postpartum services, through the end of the month in which the 60-day period (beginning on the last day of the pregnancy) ends, in the same manner as such assistance and postpartum services would be provided if provided under the State plan under subchapter XIX, but only if the mother would otherwise satisfy the eligibility requirements that apply under the State child health plan (other than with respect to age) during such period.


(3) No inferenceNothing in this subsection shall be construed—(A) to infer congressional intent regarding the legality or illegality of the content of the sections specified in paragraph (1)(A); or

(B) to modify the authority to provide pregnancy-related services under a waiver specified in paragraph (1)(B).



(Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title XXI, § 2112, as added Pub. L. 111–3, title I, § 111(a), Feb. 4, 2009, 123 Stat. 26.)

Effective DateSection effective Apr. 1, 2009, and applicable to child health assistance and medical assistance provided on or after that date, with certain exceptions, see section 3 of Pub. L. 111–3, set out as a note under section 1396 of this title.


