§ 1862p–14. Broader Impacts Review Criterion(a) GoalsThe Foundation shall apply a Broader Impacts Review Criterion to achieve the following goals:(1) Increased economic competitiveness of the United States.

(2) Development of a globally competitive STEM workforce.

(3) Increased participation of women and underrepresented minorities in STEM.

(4) Increased partnerships between academia and industry.

(5) Improved pre-K–12 STEM education and teacher development.

(6) Improved undergraduate STEM education.

(7) Increased public scientific literacy.

(8) Increased national security.


(b) PolicyNot later than 6 months after January 4, 2011, the Director shall develop and implement a policy for the Broader Impacts Review Criterion that—(1) provides for educating professional staff at the Foundation, merit review panels, and applicants for Foundation research grants on the policy developed under this subsection;

(2) clarifies that the activities of grant recipients undertaken to satisfy the Broader Impacts Review Criterion shall—(A) to the extent practicable employ proven strategies and models and draw on existing programs and activities; and

(B) when novel approaches are justified, build on the most current research results;


(3) allows for some portion of funds allocated to broader impacts under a research grant to be used for assessment and evaluation of the broader impacts activity;

(4) encourages institutions of higher education and other nonprofit education or research organizations to develop and provide, either as individual institutions or in partnerships thereof, appropriate training and programs to assist Foundation-funded principal investigators at their institutions in achieving the goals of the Broader Impacts Review Criterion as described in subsection (a); and

(5) requires principal investigators applying for Foundation research grants to provide evidence of institutional support for the portion of the investigator’s proposal designed to satisfy the Broader Impacts Review Criterion, including evidence of relevant training, programs, and other institutional resources available to the investigator from either their home institution or organization or another institution or organization with relevant expertise.


(Pub. L. 111–358, title V, § 526, Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 4019.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010, also known as the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science Reauthorization Act of 2010, and also as part of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2010, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.


Definitions
For definitions of terms used in this section, see section 2 of Pub. L. 111–358, set out as a note under section 6621 of this title, and section 502 of Pub. L. 111–358, set out as a note under section 1862p of this title.


