§ 274f–2. Grants regarding hospital organ donation coordinators(a) Authority(1) In generalThe Secretary may award grants to qualified organ procurement organizations and hospitals under section 273 of this title to establish programs coordinating organ donation activities of eligible hospitals and qualified organ procurement organizations under section 273 of this title. Such activities shall be coordinated to increase the rate of organ donations for such hospitals.


(2) Eligible hospitalFor purposes of this section, the term “eligible hospital” means a hospital that performs significant trauma care, or a hospital or consortium of hospitals that serves a population base of not fewer than 200,000 individuals.



(b) Administration of coordination programA condition for the receipt of a grant under subsection (a) of this section is that the applicant involved agree that the program under such subsection will be carried out jointly—(1) by representatives from the eligible hospital and the qualified organ procurement organization with respect to which the grant is made; and

(2) by such other entities as the representatives referred to in paragraph (1) may designate.


(c) RequirementsEach entity receiving a grant under subsection (a) of this section shall—(1) establish joint organ procurement organization and hospital designated leadership responsibility and accountability for the project;

(2) develop mutually agreed upon overall project performance goals and outcome measures, including interim outcome targets; and

(3) collaboratively design and implement an appropriate data collection process to provide ongoing feedback to hospital and organ procurement organization leadership on project progress and results.


(d) Rule of constructionNothing in this section shall be construed to interfere with regulations in force on April 5, 2004.


(e) EvaluationsWithin 3 years after the award of grants under this section, the Secretary shall ensure an evaluation of programs carried out pursuant to subsection (a) of this section in order to determine the extent to which the programs have increased the rate of organ donation for the eligible hospitals involved.


(f) Matching requirementThe Secretary may not award a grant to a qualifying organ donation entity under this section unless such entity agrees that, with respect to costs to be incurred by the entity in carrying out activities for which the grant was awarded, the entity shall contribute (directly or through donations from public or private entities) non-Federal contributions in cash or in kind, in an amount equal to not less than 30 percent of the amount of the grant awarded to such entity.


(g) FundingFor the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2005, and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2009.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 377B, as added Pub. L. 108–216, § 4, Apr. 5, 2004, 118 Stat. 586.)
