§ 12910. Grants for community residences and services(a) Grant authorityThe Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may make grants to States and metropolitan areas to develop and operate community residences and provide services for eligible persons.


(b) Community residences and services(1) Community residences(A) In generalA community residence under this section shall be a multiunit residence designed for eligible persons for the following purposes:(i) To provide a lower cost residential alternative to institutional care and to prevent or delay the need for institutional care.

(ii) To provide a permanent or transitional residential setting with appropriate services that enhances the quality of life for individuals who are unable to live independently.

(iii) To prevent homelessness among eligible persons by increasing available suitable housing resources.

(iv) To integrate eligible persons into local communities and provide services to maintain the abilities of such eligible persons to participate as fully as possible in community life.


(B) RentExcept to the extent that the costs of providing residence are reimbursed or provided by any other assistance from Federal or non-Federal public sources, each resident in a community residence shall pay as rent for a dwelling unit an amount equal to the following:(i) For low-income individuals, the amount of rent paid under section 3(a) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(a)) by a low-income family (as the term is defined in section 3(b)(2) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2))) for a dwelling unit assisted under such Act [42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.].

(ii) For any resident that is not a low-income resident, an amount based on a formula, which shall be determined by the Secretary, under which rent is determined by the income and resources of the resident.


(C) FeesFees may be charged for any services provided under subsection (c)(2) of this section to residents of a community residence, except that any fees charged shall be based on the income and resources of the resident and the provision of services to any resident of a community residence may not be withheld because of an inability of the resident to pay such fee.


(D) Section 1437f assistanceAssistance made available under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) may be used in conjunction with a community residence under this subsection for tenant-based assistance.



(2) ServicesServices provided with a grant under this section shall consist of services appropriate in assisting eligible persons to enhance their quality of life, enable such individuals to more fully participate in community life, and delay or prevent the placement of such individuals in hospitals or other institutions.



(c) Use of grantsAny amounts received from a grant under this section may be used only as follows:(1) Community residencesFor providing assistance in connection with community residences under subsection (b)(1) of this section for the following activities:(A) Physical improvementsConstruction, acquisition, rehabilitation, conversion, retrofitting, and other physical improvements necessary to make a structure suitable for use as a community residence.


(B) Operating costsOperating costs for a community residence.


(C) Technical assistanceTechnical assistance in establishing and operating a community residence, which may include planning and other predevelopment or preconstruction expenses, and expenses relating to community outreach and educational activities regarding acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and related diseases provided for individuals residing in proximity of eligible persons assisted under this chapter.


(D) In-house servicesServices appropriate for individuals residing in a community residence, which may include staff training and recruitment.



(2) ServicesFor providing services under subsection (b)(2) of this section to any individuals assisted under this chapter.


(3) Administrative expensesFor administrative expenses related to the planning and carrying out activities under this section (subject to the provisions of section 12905(g) of this title).



(d) Limitations on use of grants(1) Community residencesAny jurisdiction that receives a grant under this section may not use any amounts received under the grant for the purposes under subsection (c)(1) of this section, except for planning and other expenses preliminary to construction or other physical improvement under subsection (c)(1)(A) of this section, unless the jurisdiction certifies to the Secretary, as the Secretary shall require, the following:(A) Service agreementThat the jurisdiction has entered into a written agreement with service providers qualified to deliver any services included in the proposal under subsection (c) of this section to provide such services to eligible persons assisted by the community residence.


(B) Funding and capabilityThat the jurisdiction will have sufficient funding for such services and the service providers are qualified to assist eligible persons.


(C) Zoning and building codesThat any construction or physical improvements carried out with amounts received from the grant will comply with any applicable State and local housing codes and licensing requirements in the jurisdiction in which the building or structure is located.


(D) Intensive assistanceThat, for any individual with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases who resides in a community residence assisted under the grant and who requires more intensive care than can be provided by the community residence, the jurisdiction will locate for and refer the individual to a service provider who can appropriately care for the individual.



(2) ServicesAny jurisdiction that receives a grant under this section may use any amounts received under the grant for the purposes under subsection (c)(2) of this section only for the provision of services by service providers qualified to provide such services to eligible persons.



(Pub. L. 101–625, title VIII, § 861, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4382; Pub. L. 102–550, title VI, § 606(i), (j)(8)–(10), (11)(E), Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 3810, 3811; Pub. L. 105–276, title V, § 550(b), Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2609.)


References in TextThe United States Housing Act of 1937, referred to in subsec. (b)(1)(B)(i), is act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 896, as revised generally by Pub. L. 93–383, title II, § 201(a), Aug. 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 653, and amended, which is classified generally to chapter 8 (§ 1437 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1437 of this title and Tables.

Amendments1998—Subsec. (b)(1)(D). Pub. L. 105–276 substituted “assistance” for “certificates or vouchers”.
1992—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(j)(8), substituted “eligible persons” for “persons with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases”.
Subsec. (b)(1)(A). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(j)(11)(E)(i), substituted “eligible persons” for “individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases” in introductory provisions and cl. (iii).
Subsec. (b)(1)(A)(iv). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(j)(9), (11)(E)(i), substituted “eligible persons” for “individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases” and “such eligible persons” for “such individuals”.
Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(j)(11)(E)(i), which directed the substitution of “eligible persons” for “individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases” wherever appearing in subsec. (b), was executed by making the substitution for “individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and related diseases” in par. (2) to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Subsec. (c)(1)(C). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(i)(1), inserted before period at end “, and expenses relating to community outreach and educational activities regarding acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and related diseases provided for individuals residing in proximity of eligible persons assisted under this chapter”.
Subsec. (c)(3). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(i)(2), added par. (3) and struck out former par. (3) which read as follows: “For administrative expenses related to the planning and execution of activities under this section, except that a jurisdiction that receives a grant under this section may expend not more than 10 percent of the amount received under the grant for such administrative expenses. Administrative expenses under this paragraph may include expenses relating to community outreach and educational activities regarding acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and related diseases, for staff carrying out activities assisted with a grant under this section and for individuals who reside in proximity of individuals assisted under this chapter.”
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(j)(11)(E)(ii), which directed the substitution of “eligible persons” for “individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases” wherever appearing in subsec. (d), was executed by making the substitution for “individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and related diseases” in pars. (1)(B) and (2) to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Subsec. (d)(1)(A). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(j)(10)(A), substituted “eligible persons” for “individuals”.
Subsec. (d)(1)(D). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(j)(10)(B), inserted “with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases” after “any individual”.

Effective Date of 1998 AmendmentAmendment by title V of Pub. L. 105–276 effective and applicable beginning upon Oct. 1, 1999, except as otherwise provided, with provision that Secretary may implement amendment before such date, except to extent that such amendment provides otherwise, and with savings provision, see section 503 of Pub. L. 105–276, set out as a note under section 1437 of this title.


