“SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.“In this Act:“(1) Aquifer.—The term ‘aquifer’ means a subsurface water-bearing geologic formation from which significant quantities of water may be extracted.

“(2) IBWC.—The term ‘IBWC’ means the International Boundary and Water Commission, an agency of the Department of State.

“(3) Indian tribe.—The term ‘Indian tribe’ means an Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community—“(A) that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians; and

“(B) the reservation of which includes a transboundary aquifer within the exterior boundaries of the reservation.


“(4) Participating state.—The term ‘Participating State’ means each of the States of Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas.

“(5) Priority transboundary aquifer.—The term ‘priority transboundary aquifer’ means a transboundary aquifer that has been designated for study and analysis under the program.

“(6) Program.—The term ‘program’ means the United States-Mexico transboundary aquifer assessment program established under section 4(a).

“(7) Reservation.—The term ‘reservation’ means land that has been set aside or that has been acknowledged as having been set aside by the United States for the use of an Indian tribe, the exterior boundaries of which are more particularly defined in a final tribal treaty, agreement, executive order, Federal statute, secretarial order, or judicial determination.

“(8) Secretary.—The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the United States Geological Survey.

“(9) Transboundary aquifer.—The term ‘transboundary aquifer’ means an aquifer that underlies the boundary between a Participating State and Mexico.

“(10) Tri-regional planning group.—The term ‘Tri-Regional Planning Group’ means the binational planning group comprised of—“(A) the Junta Municipal de Agua y Saneamiento de Ciudad Juarez;

“(B) the El Paso Water Utilities Public Service Board; and

“(C) the Lower Rio Grande Water Users Organization.


“(11) Water resources research institutes.—The term ‘water resources research institutes’ means the institutes within the Participating States established under section 104 of the Water Resources Research Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10303).

