§ 3177. Use of photovoltaic energy in public buildings(a) Photovoltaic Energy Commercialization Program.—(1) In general.—The Administrator of General Services may establish a photovoltaic energy commercialization program for the procurement and installation of photovoltaic solar electric systems for electric production in new and existing public buildings.

(2) Purposes.—The purposes of the program shall be to accomplish the following:(A) To accelerate the growth of a commercially viable photovoltaic industry to make this energy system available to the general public as an option which can reduce the national consumption of fossil fuel.

(B) To reduce the fossil fuel consumption and costs of the Federal Government.

(C) To attain the goal of installing solar energy systems in 20,000 Federal buildings by 2010, as contained in the Federal Government’s Million Solar Roof Initiative of 1997.

(D) To stimulate the general use within the Federal Government of life-cycle costing and innovative procurement methods.

(E) To develop program performance data to support policy decisions on future incentive programs with respect to energy.


(3) Acquisition of photovoltaic solar electric systems.—(A) In general.—The program shall provide for the acquisition of photovoltaic solar electric systems and associated storage capability for use in public buildings.

(B) Acquisition levels.—The acquisition of photovoltaic electric systems shall be at a level substantial enough to allow use of low-cost production techniques with at least 150 megawatts (peak) cumulative acquired during the 5 years of the program.


(4) Administration.—The Administrator shall administer the program and shall—(A) issue such rules and regulations as may be appropriate to monitor and assess the performance and operation of photovoltaic solar electric systems installed pursuant to this subsection;

(B) develop innovative procurement strategies for the acquisition of such systems; and

(C) transmit to Congress an annual report on the results of the program.



(b) Photovoltaic Systems Evaluation Program.—(1) In general.—Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall establish a photovoltaic solar energy systems evaluation program to evaluate such photovoltaic solar energy systems as are required in public buildings.

(2) Program requirement.—In evaluating photovoltaic solar energy systems under the program, the Administrator shall ensure that such systems reflect the most advanced technology.


(c) Authorization of Appropriations.—(1) Photovoltaic energy commercialization program.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out subsection (a) $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010. Such sums shall remain available until expended.

(2) Photovoltaic systems evaluation program.—There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out subsection (b) $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2010. Such sums shall remain available until expended.


(Added Pub. L. 109–58, title II, § 204(a), Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 653.)


References in TextThe date of enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 109–58, which was approved Aug. 8, 2005.


