“SEC. 216. COMMON PROTOCOLS FOR GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS.“(a) Purposes.—The purposes of this section are to—“(1) reduce redundant data collection and information; and

“(2) promote collaboration and use of standards for government geographic information.


“(b) Definition.—In this section, the term ‘geographic information’ means information systems that involve locational data, such as maps or other geospatial information resources.

“(c) In General.—“(1) Common protocols.—The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, working with the Director and through an interagency group, and working with private sector experts, State, local, and tribal governments, commercial and international standards groups, and other interested parties, shall facilitate the development of common protocols for the development, acquisition, maintenance, distribution, and application of geographic information. If practicable, the Administrator shall incorporate intergovernmental and public private geographic information partnerships into efforts under this subsection.

“(2) Interagency group.—The interagency group referred to under paragraph (1) shall include representatives of the National Institute of Standards and Technology and other agencies.


“(d) Director.—The Director shall oversee—“(1) the interagency initiative to develop common protocols;

“(2) the coordination with State, local, and tribal governments, public private partnerships, and other interested persons on effective and efficient ways to align geographic information and develop common protocols; and

“(3) the adoption of common standards relating to the protocols.


“(e) Common Protocols.—The common protocols shall be designed to—“(1) maximize the degree to which unclassified geographic information from various sources can be made electronically compatible and accessible; and

“(2) promote the development of interoperable geographic information systems technologies that shall—“(A) allow widespread, low-cost use and sharing of geographic data by Federal agencies, State, local, and tribal governments, and the public; and

“(B) enable the enhancement of services using geographic data.



“(f) Authorization of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section, for each of the fiscal years 2003 through 2007.”

