§ 16393. Small business advocacy and assistance(a) Small business advocateThe Secretary shall require the Director of each National Laboratory, and may require the Director of a single-purpose research facility, to designate a small business advocate to—(1) increase the participation of small business concerns, including socially and economically disadvantaged small business concerns (as defined in section 637(a)(4) of title 15), in procurement, collaborative research, technology licensing, and technology transfer activities conducted by the National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility;

(2) report to the Director of the National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility on the actual participation of small business concerns in procurement and collaborative research along with recommendations, if appropriate, on how to improve participation;

(3) make available to small business concerns training, mentoring, and information on how to participate in procurement and collaborative research activities;

(4) increase the awareness inside the National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility of the capabilities and opportunities presented by small business concerns; and

(5) establish guidelines for the program under subsection (b) and report on the effectiveness of the program to the Director of the National Laboratory or single-purpose research facility.


(b) Establishment of small business assistance programThe Secretary shall require the Director of each National Laboratory, and may require the Director of a single-purpose research facility, to establish a program to provide small business concerns with—(1) assistance directed at making the small business concerns more effective and efficient subcontractors or suppliers to the National Laboratory or single-purpose research facilities; or

(2) general technical assistance, the cost of which shall not exceed $10,000 per instance of assistance, to improve the products or services of the small business concern.


(c) Use of fundsNone of the funds expended under subsection (b) may be used for direct grants to small business concerns.


(d) Authorization of appropriationsThere is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for activities under this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006 through 2008.


(Pub. L. 109–58, title X, § 1003, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 929.)
