§ 600d. Sanford Reservoir recreation facilities; allocation of water, reservoir capacity, or joint project costs of Canadian River project; municipal water use priorities; agreements for operation, maintenance, or additional development of project lands or facilities; disposal of project lands or facilities; nonreimbursable costs; cognizance of effect of fish and wildlife plan
The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to investigate, plan, construct, operate and maintain, or otherwise provide for basic public outdoor recreation facilities at the Sanford Reservoir area, Canadian Federal reclamation project, to acquire or otherwise include within the project area such adjacent lands or interests therein as are necessary for present or future public recreation use, and to provide for the public use and enjoyment of project lands, facilities, and water areas in a manner coordinated with other project purposes: Provided, That this section shall not provide the Secretary with a basis for allocation to recreation of water, reservoir capacity, or joint project costs of the Canadian River project nor affect the priority for municipal use of water stored in the Sanford Reservoir, or the priority of use for municipal purposes of the capacity of said reservoir. The Secretary is authorized to enter into agreements with Federal agencies or State or local public bodies for the operation, maintenance, or additional development of project lands or facilities, or to dispose of project lands or facilities to Federal agencies or State or local public bodies by lease, transfer, conveyance or exchange upon such terms and conditions as will best promote the development and operation of such lands or facilities in the public interest for recreation purposes. The cost of providing basic recreation facilities shall be nonreimbursable. In carrying out the aforesaid activities the Secretary shall take cognizance of the effect of the fish and wildlife plan approved by the President December 19, 1962, pursuant to sections 600b and 600c of this title in providing facilities at the Canadian River project which have general recreation utility.
(Pub. L. 88–536, § 1, Aug. 31, 1964, 78 Stat. 744.)
