§ 8011. Revised congregate housing services program(a) Findings and purposes(1) FindingsThe Congress finds that—(A) the effective provision of congregate services may require the redesign of units and buildings to meet the special physical needs of the frail elderly persons and the creation of congregate space to accommodate services that enhance independent living;

(B) congregate housing, coordinated with the delivery of supportive services, offers an innovative, proven, and cost-effective means of enabling frail older persons and persons with disabilities to maintain their dignity and independence;

(C) independent living with assistance is a preferable housing alternative to institutionalization for many frail older persons and persons with disabilities;

(D) 365,000 persons in federally assisted housing experience some form of frailty, and the number is expected to increase as the general population ages;

(E) an estimated 20 to 30 percent of older adults living in federally assisted housing experience some form of frailty;

(F) a large and growing number of frail elderly residents face premature or unnecessary institutionalization because of the absence of or deficiencies in the availability, adequacy, coordination, or delivery of supportive services;

(G) the support service needs of frail residents of assisted housing are beyond the resources and experience that housing managers have for meeting such needs;

(H) supportive services would promote the invaluable option of independent living for nonelderly persons with disabilities in federally assisted housing;

(I) approximately 25 percent of congregate housing services program sites provide congregate services to young individuals with disabilities;

(J) to the extent that institutionalized older adults do not need the full costly support provided by such care, public moneys could be more effectively spent providing the necessary services in a noninstitutional setting; and

(K) the Congregate Housing Services Program, established by Congress in 1978, and similar programs providing in-home services have been effective in preventing unnecessary institutionalization and encouraging deinstitutionalization.


(2) PurposesThe purposes of this section are—(A) to provide assistance to retrofit individual dwelling units and renovate public and common areas in eligible housing to meet the special physical needs of eligible residents;

(B) to create and rehabilitate congregate space in or adjacent to such housing to accommodate supportive services that enhance independent living;

(C) to improve the capacity of management to assess the service needs of eligible residents, coordinate the provision of supportive services that meet the needs of eligible residents and ensure the long-term provision of such services;

(D) to provide services in federally assisted housing to prevent premature and inappropriate institutionalization in a manner that respects the dignity of the elderly and persons with disabilities;

(E) to provide readily available and efficient supportive services that provide a choice in supported living arrangements by utilizing the services of an on-site coordinator, with emphasis on maintaining a continuum of care for the vulnerable elderly;

(F) to improve the quality of life of older Americans living in federally assisted housing;

(G) to preserve the viability of existing affordable housing projects for lower-income older residents who are aging in place by assisting managers of such housing with the difficulties and challenges created by serving older residents;

(H) to develop partnerships between the Federal Government and State governments in providing services to the frail elderly and persons with disabilities; and

(I) to utilize Federal and State funds in a more cost-effective and humane way in serving the needs of older adults.



(b) Contracts for congregate services programs(1) In generalThe Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of Agriculture (through Administrator of the Farmers Home Administration) shall enter into contracts with States, Indian tribes, units of general local government and local nonprofit housing sponsors, utilizing any amounts appropriated under subsection (n) of this section—(A) to provide congregate services programs for eligible project residents to promote and encourage maximum independence within a home environment for such residents capable of self-care with appropriate supportive services; or

(B) to adapt housing to better accommodate the physical requirements and service needs of eligible residents.


(2) Term of contractsEach contract between the Secretary concerned and a State, Indian tribe, or unit of general local government, or local nonprofit housing sponsor, shall be for a term of 5 years and shall be renewable at the expiration of the term, except as otherwise provided in this section.



(c) Reservation of amountsFor each State, Indian tribe, unit of general local government, and nonprofit housing sponsor, receiving a contract under this subsection,11 So in original. Probably should be “section,”. the Secretary concerned shall reserve a sum equal to the total approved contract amount from the amount authorized and appropriated for the fiscal year in which the notification date of funding approval occurs.


(d) Eligible activities(1) In generalA congregate services program under this section shall provide meal and other services for eligible project residents (and other residents and nonresidents, as provided in subsection (e) of this section), as provided in this section, that are coordinated on site.


(2) Meal servicesCongregate services programs assisted under this section shall include meal service adequate to meet at least one-third of the daily nutritional needs of eligible project residents, as follows:(A) Supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits and agricultural commoditiesIn providing meal services under this paragraph, each congregate services program—(i) shall—(I) apply for approval as a retail food store under section 2018 of title 7; and

(II) if approved under such section, accept benefits as payment from individuals to whom such meal services are provided; and


(ii) shall request, and use to provide such meal services, agricultural commodities made available without charge by the Secretary of Agriculture.


(B) Preference for nutrition providersIn contracting for or otherwise providing for meal services under this paragraph, each congregate services program shall give preference to any provider of meal services who—(i) receives assistance under title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965 [42 U.S.C. 3021 et seq.]; or

(ii) has experience, according to standards as the Secretary shall require, in providing meal services in a housing project under the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978 [42 U.S.C. 8001 et seq.] or any other program for congregate services.



(3) Retrofit and renovationAssistance under this section may be provided with respect to eligible housing for the elderly for—(A) retrofitting of individual dwelling units to meet the special physical needs of current or future residents who are or are expected to be eligible residents, which retrofitting may include—(i) widening of doors to allow passage by persons with disabilities in wheelchairs into and within units in the project;

(ii) placement of light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other environmental controls in accessible locations;

(iii) installation of grab bars in bathrooms or the placement of reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation of grab bars;

(iv) redesign of usable kitchens and bathrooms to permit a person in a wheelchair to maneuver about the space; and

(v) such other features of adaptive design that the Secretary finds are appropriate to meet the special needs of such residents;


(B) such renovation as is necessary to ensure that public and common areas are readily accessible to and usable by eligible residents;

(C) renovation, conversion, or combination of vacant dwelling units to create congregate space to accommodate the provision of supportive services to eligible residents;

(D) renovation of existing congregate space to accommodate the provision of supportive services to eligible residents; and

(E) construction or renovation of facilities to create conveniently located congregate space to accommodate the provision of supportive services to eligible residents.


For purposes of this paragraph, the term “congregate space” shall include space for cafeterias or dining halls, community rooms or buildings, workshops, adult day health facilities, or other outpatient health facilities, or other essential service facilities.

(4) Service coordinatorAssistance under this section may be provided with respect to the employment of one or more individuals (hereinafter referred to as “service coordinator”) who may be responsible for—(A) working with the professional assessment committee established under subsection (f) 22 So in original. Probably should be subsection “(e)”. of this section on an ongoing basis to assess the service needs of eligible residents;

(B) working with service providers and the professional assessment committee to tailor the provision of services to the needs and characteristics of eligible residents;

(C) mobilizing public and private resources to ensure that the qualifying supportive services identified pursuant to subsection (d) of this section can be funded over the time period identified under such subsection;

(D) monitoring and evaluating the impact and effectiveness of any supportive service program receiving capital or operating assistance under this section; and

(E) performing such other duties and functions that the Secretary deems appropriate to enable frail elderly persons residing in federally assisted housing to live with dignity and independence.


The Secretary shall establish such minimum qualifications and standards for the position of service coordinator that the Secretary deems necessary to ensure sound management. Such qualifications and standards shall include requiring each service coordinator to be trained in the aging process, elder services, disability services, eligibility for and procedures of Federal and applicable State entitlement programs, legal liability issues relating to providing service coordination, drug and alcohol use and abuse by the elderly, and mental health issues. The Secretary may fund the employment of service coordinators by using amounts appropriated under this section and by permitting owners to use existing sources of funds, including excess project reserves.

(5) Other servicesCongregate services programs assisted under this section may include services for transportation, personal care, dressing, bathing, toileting, housekeeping, chore assistance, nonmedical counseling, assessment of the safety of housing units, group and socialization activities, assistance with medications (in accordance with any applicable State law), case management, personal emergency response, and other services to prevent premature and unnecessary institutionalization of eligible project residents.


(6) Determination of needsIn determining the services to be provided to eligible project residents under a congregate services program assisted under this section, the program shall provide for consideration of the needs and wants of eligible project residents.


(7) Fees(A) Eligible project residentsThe owner of each eligible housing project shall establish fees for meals and other services provided under a congregate services program to eligible project residents, which shall be sufficient to provide 10 percent of the costs of the services provided. The Secretary concerned shall provide for the waiver of fees under this paragraph for individuals whose incomes are insufficient to provide for any payment. The fees for meals shall be in the following amounts:(i) Full meal servicesThe fees for residents receiving more than 1 meal per day, 7 days per week, shall be reasonable and shall equal between 10 and 20 percent of the adjusted income of the project resident (as such income is determined under section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)]), or the cost of providing the services, whichever is less.


(ii) Less than full meal servicesThe fees for residents receiving meal services less frequently than as described in the preceding sentence shall be in an amount equal to 10 percent of such adjusted income of the project resident or the cost of providing the services, whichever is less.



(B) Other residents and nonresidentsFees shall be established under this paragraph for residents of eligible housing projects (other than eligible project residents) and for nonresidents that receive services from a congregate services program pursuant to subsection (e) of this section. Such fees shall be in an amount equal to the cost of providing the services.



(8) Direct and indirect provision of servicesAny State, Indian tribe, unit of general local government, or nonprofit housing sponsor that receives assistance under this section may provide congregate services directly to eligible project residents or may, by contract or lease, provide such services through other appropriate agencies or providers.



(e) Eligibility for services(1) Eligible project residentsAny eligible resident who is a resident of an eligible housing project (or who with deinstitutionalization and appropriate supportive services under this section could become a resident of eligible federally assisted housing) shall be eligible for services under a congregate services program assisted under this section.


(2) Economic needIn providing services under a congregate services program, the program shall give consideration to serving eligible project residents with the greatest economic need.


(3) Identification(A) In generalA professional assessment committee under subparagraph (B) shall identify eligible project residents under paragraph (1) and shall designate services appropriate to the functional abilities and needs of each eligible project resident. The committee shall utilize procedures that ensure that the process of determining eligibility of individuals for congregate services shall accord such individuals fair treatment and due process and a right of appeal of the determination of eligibility, and shall also ensure the confidentiality of personal and medical records.


(B) Professional assessment committeeA professional assessment committee under this section shall consist of not less than 3 individuals, who shall be appointed to the committee by the officials of the eligible housing project responsible for the congregate services program, and shall include qualified medical and other health and social services professionals competent to appraise the functional abilities of the frail elderly and persons with disabilities in relation to the performance of tasks of daily living.



(4) Eligibility of other residentsThe elderly and persons with disabilities who reside in an eligible housing project other than eligible project residents under paragraph (1) may receive services from a congregate services program under this section if the housing managers, congregate service coordinators, and the professional assessment committee jointly determine that the participation of such individuals will not negatively affect the provision of services to eligible project residents. Residents eligible for services under this paragraph shall pay fees as provided under subsection (d) of this section.


(5) Eligibility of nonresidentsThe Secretary may permit the provision of services to elderly persons and persons with disabilities who are not residents if the participation of such persons will not adversely affect the cost-effectiveness or operation of the program or add significantly to the need for assistance under this section.



(f) Eligible contract recipients and distribution of assistanceThe Secretary concerned may provide assistance under this section and enter into contracts under subsection (b) of this section with—(1) owners of eligible housing;

(2) States that submit applications in behalf of owners of eligible housing; and

(3) Indian tribes and units of general local government that submit applications on behalf of owners of eligible housing.


(g) ApplicationsThe funds made available under this section shall be allocated by the Secretary among approvable applications submitted by or on behalf of owners. Applications for assistance under this section shall be submitted in such form and in accordance with such procedures as the Secretary shall establish. Applications for assistance shall contain—(1) a description of the type of assistance the applicant is applying for;

(2) in the case of an application involving rehabilitation or retrofit, a description of the activities to be carried out, the number of elderly persons to be served, the costs of such activities, and evidence of a commitment for the services to be associated with the project;

(3) a description of qualifying supportive services that can reasonably be expected to be made available to eligible residents over a 5-year period;

(4) a firm commitment from one or more sources of assistance ensuring that some or all of the qualifying supportive services identified under paragraph (3) will be provided for not less than 1 year following the completion of activities assisted under subsection (d) of this section;

(5) a description of public or private sources of assistance that are likely to fund or provide qualifying supportive services, including evidence of any intention to provide assistance expressed by State and local governments, private foundations, and other organizations (including for-profit and nonprofit organizations);

(6) a certifications 33 So in original. Probably should be “certification”. from the appropriate State or local agency (as determined by the Secretary) that—(A) the provision of the qualifying supportive services identified under paragraph (3) will enable eligible residents to live independently and avoid unnecessary institutionalization,

(B) there is a reasonable likelihood that such services will be funded or provided for the entire period specified under paragraph (3), and

(C) the agency and the applicant will, during the term of the contract, actively seek assistance for such services from other sources;


(7) a description of any fees that would be established pursuant to subsection (d) of this section; and

(8) such other information or certifications that the Secretary determines to be necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of this section.


The Secretary shall act on each application within 60 days of its submission.

(h) Selection and evaluation of applications and programs(1) In generalEach Secretary concerned shall establish criteria for selecting States, Indian tribes, units of general local government, and local nonprofit housing sponsors to receive assistance under this section, and shall select such entities to receive assistance. The criteria for selection shall include consideration of—(A) the extent to which the activities described in subsection (d)(3) of this section will foster independent living and the provision of such services;

(B) the types and priorities of the basic services proposed to be provided, the appropriateness of the targeting of services, the methods of providing for deinstitutionalized older individuals and individuals with disabilities, and the relationship of the proposal to the needs and characteristics of the eligible residents of the projects where the services are to be provided;

(C) the schedule for establishment of services following approval of the application;

(D) the degree to which local social services are adequate for the purpose of assisting eligible project residents to maintain independent living and avoid unnecessary institutionalization;

(E) the professional qualifications of the members of the professional assessment committee;

(F) the reasonableness and application of fees schedules established for congregate services;

(G) the adequacy and accuracy of the proposed budgets; and

(H) the extent to which the owner will provide funds from other services in excess of that required by this section.


(2) Evaluation of provision of congregate services programsThe Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of Agriculture shall, by regulation under subsection (n) 44 So in original. Probably should be subsection “(m)”. of this section, establish procedures for States, Indian tribes, and units of general local government receiving assistance under this section—(A) to review and evaluate the performance of the congregate services programs of eligible housing projects receiving assistance under this section in such State; and

(B) to submit annually, to the Secretary concerned, a report evaluating the impact and effectiveness of congregate services programs in the entity assisted under this section.



(i) Congregate services program funding(1) Cost distribution(A) Contribution requirementIn providing contracts under subsection (b) of this section, each Secretary concerned shall provide for the cost of providing the congregate services program assisted under this section to be distributed as follows:(i) Each State, Indian tribe, unit of general 55 So in original. Probably should be “general local”. government, or nonprofit housing sponsor that receives amounts under a contract under subsection (b) of this section shall supplement any such amount with amounts sufficient to provide 50 percent of the cost of providing the congregate services program. Any monetary or in-kind contributions received by a congregate services program under the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978 [42 U.S.C. 8001 et seq.] may be considered for purposes of fulfilling the requirement under this clause. The Secretary concerned shall encourage owners to use excess residual receipts to the extent available to supplement funds for retrofit and supportive services under this section.

(ii) The Secretary concerned shall provide 40 percent of the cost, with amounts under contracts under subsection (b) of this section.

(iii) Fees under subsection (d)(7) of this section shall provide 10 percent of the cost.


(B) Exceptions(i) For any congregate services program that was receiving assistance under a contract under the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978 [42 U.S.C. 8001 et seq.] on November 28, 1990,66 See Codification note below. the unit of general local government or nonprofit housing sponsor, in coordination with a local government with respect to such program shall not be subject to the requirement to provide supplemental contributions under subparagraph (A)(i) (for such program) for the 6-year period beginning on the expiration of the contract for such assistance. The Secretary concerned shall require each such program to maintain, for such 6-year period, the same dollar amount of annual contributions in support of the services eligible for assistance under this section as were contributed to such program during the year preceding November 28, 1990.6

(ii) To the extent that the limitations under subsection (d)(7) of this section regarding the percentage of income eligible residents may pay for services will result in collected fees for any congregate services program of less than 10 percent of the cost of providing the program, 50 percent of such remaining costs shall be provided by the recipient of amounts under the contract and 50 percent of such remaining costs shall be provided by the Secretary concerned under such contract.


(C) Eligible supplemental contributionsIf provided by the State, Indian tribe, unit of general local government, or local nonprofit housing sponsor, any salary paid to staff from governmental sources to carry out the program of the recipient and salary paid to residents employed by the program (other than from amounts under a contract under subsection (b) of this section), and any other in-kind contributions from governmental sources shall be considered as supplemental contributions for purposes of meeting the supplemental contribution requirement under subparagraph (A)(i), except that the amount of in-kind contributions considered for purposes of fulfilling such contribution requirement may not exceed 10 percent of the total amount to be provided by the State, Indian tribe, local government, or local nonprofit housing sponsor.


(D) Prohibition of substitution of fundsThe Secretary concerned shall require each State, Indian tribe, unit of general local government, and local nonprofit housing sponsor, that receives assistance under this section to maintain the same dollar amount of annual contribution that such State, Indian tribe, local government, or sponsor was making, if any, in support of services eligible for assistance under this section before the date of the submission of the application for such assistance.


(E) LimitationFor purposes of complying with the requirement under subparagraph (A)(i), the appropriate Secretary concerned may not consider any amounts contributed or provided by any local government to any State receiving assistance under this section that exceed 10 percent of the amount required of the State under subparagraph (A)(i).



(2) ConsultationThe Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services regarding the availability of assistance from other Federal programs to support services under this section and shall make information available to applicants for assistance under this section.



(j) Miscellaneous provisions(1) Use of residents in providing servicesEach housing project that receives assistance under this section shall, to the maximum extent practicable, utilize the elderly and persons with disabilities who are residents of the housing project, but who are not eligible project residents, to participate in providing the services provided under congregate services programs under this section. Such individuals shall be paid wages that shall not be lower than the higher of—(A) the minimum wage that would be applicable to the employee under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 [29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.], if section 6(a)(1) of such Act [29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)] applied to the resident and if the resident were not exempt under section 13 of such Act [29 U.S.C. 213];

(B) the State of 77 So in original. Probably should be “or”. local minimum wage for the most nearly comparable covered employment; or

(C) the prevailing rates of pay for persons employed in similar public occupations by the same employer.


(2) Effect of servicesExcept for wages paid under paragraph (1) of this subsection, services provided to a resident of an eligible housing project under a congregate services program under this section may not be considered as income for the purpose of determining eligibility for or the amount of assistance or aid furnished under any Federal, federally assisted, or State program based on need.


(3) Eligibility and priority for 1978 Act recipientsNotwithstanding any other provision of this section, any public housing agency, housing assisted under section 1701q of title 12, or nonprofit corporation that was receiving assistance under a contract under the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978 [42 U.S.C. 8001 et seq.] on November 5, 1990,88 See Codification note below. shall (subject to approval and allocation of sufficient amounts under the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978 and appropriations Acts under such Act) receive assistance under the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978 for the remainder of the term of the contract for assistance for such agency or corporation under such Act, and shall receive priority for assistance under this section after the expiration of such period.


(4) Administrative cost limitationA recipient of assistance under this section may not use more than 10 percent of the sum of such assistance and the contribution amounts required under subsection (i)(1)(A)(i) of this section for administrative costs and shall ensure that any entity to which the recipient distributes amounts from such sum may not expend more than a reasonable amount from such distributed amounts for administrative costs. Administrative costs may not include any capital expenses.



(k) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section:(1) The term “activity of daily living” means an activity regularly necessary for personal care and includes bathing, dressing, eating, getting in and out of bed and chairs, walking, going outdoors, and using the toilet.

(2) The term “case management” means assessment of the needs of a resident, ensuring access to and coordination of services for the resident, monitoring delivery of services to the resident, and periodic reassessment to ensure that services provided are appropriate to the needs and wants of the resident.

(3) The term “congregate housing” means low-rent housing that is connected to a central dining facility where wholesome and economical meals can be served to the residents.

(4) The term “congregate services” means services described in subsection (d) of this section.

(5) The term “congregate services program” means a program assisted under this section undertaken by an eligible housing project to provide congregate services to eligible residents.

(6) The term “eligible housing project” means—(A) public housing (as such term is defined in section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)]) and lower income housing developed or operated pursuant to a contract between the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and an Indian housing authority under title II 99 See References in Text note below. of the United States Housing Act of 1937;

(B) housing assisted under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C. 1437f] with a contract that is attached to the structure under subsection (d)(2) of such section or with a contract entered into in connection with the new construction or moderate rehabilitation of the structure under section 8(b)(2) of the United States Housing Act,9 as such section existed before October 1, 1983;

(C) housing assisted under section 1701q of title 12;

(D) housing assisted under section 1715l(d) or 1715z–1 of title 12, with respect to which the owner has made a binding commitment to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development not to prepay the mortgage or terminate the insurance contract under section 1715t of title 12 (unless the binding commitments have been made to extend the low-income use restrictions relating to such housing for the remaining useful life of the housing);

(E) housing assisted under section 1484 or 1485 of this title, with respect to which the owner has made a binding commitment to the Secretary of Agriculture not to prepay or refinance the mortgage (unless the binding commitments have been made to extend the low-income use restrictions relating to such housing for not less than the 20-year period under section 1472(c)(4) of this title); and

(F) housing assisted under section 1486 of this title.


(7) The term “eligible resident” means a person residing in eligible housing for the elderly who qualifies under the definition of frail elderly, person with disabilities (regardless of whether the person is elderly), or temporarily disabled.

(8) The term “frail elderly” means an elderly person who is unable to perform at least 3 activities of daily living adopted by the Secretary for purposes of this program. Owners may establish additional eligibility requirements (acceptable to the Secretary) based on the standards in local supportive services programs.

(9) The term “Indian tribe” means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act [43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.], that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.

(10) The term “instrumental activity of daily living” means a regularly necessary home management activity and includes preparing meals, shopping for personal items, managing money, using the telephone, and performing light or heavy housework.

(11) The term “local nonprofit housing sponsor” includes public housing agencies (as such term is defined in section 3(b)(6) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(6)].1010 So in original. Probably should be preceded by a closing parenthesis.

(12) The term “nonprofit”, as applied to an organization, means no part of the net earnings of the organization inures, or may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.

(13) The term “elderly person” means a person who is at least 62 years of age.

(14) The term “person with disabilities” has the meaning given the term by section 8013 of this title.

(15) The term “professional assessment committee” means a committee established under subsection (e)(3)(B) of this section.

(16) The term “qualifying supportive services” means new or significantly expanded services that the Secretary deems essential to enable eligible residents to live independently and avoid unnecessary institutionalization. Such services may include but not be limited to (A) meal service adequate to meet nutritional need; (B) housekeeping aid; (C) personal assistance (which may include, but is not limited to, aid given to eligible residents in grooming, dressing, and other activities which maintain personal appearance and hygiene); (D) transportation services; (E) health-related services; and (F) personal emergency response systems; the owner may provide the qualifying services directly to eligible residents or may, by contract or lease, provide such services through other appropriate agencies or providers.

(17) The term “Secretary concerned” means—(A) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, with respect to eligible federally assisted housing administered by such Secretary; and

(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to eligible federally assisted housing administered by the Administrator of the Farmers Home Administration.


(18) The term “State” means the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.

(19) The term “temporarily disabled” means having an impairment that—(A) is expected to be of no more than 6 months duration; and

(B) impedes the ability of the individual to live independently unless the individual receives congregate services.


(20) The term “unit of general local government”—(A) means any city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State; and

(B) includes a unit of general government acting as an applicant for assistance under this section in cooperation with a nonprofit housing sponsor and a nonprofit housing sponsor acting as an applicant for assistance under this section in cooperation with a unit of general local government, as provided under subsection (g)(1)(B) 1111 So in original. Probably should be subsection “(h)(1)(B)”. of this section.



(l) Reports to Congress(1) In generalEach Secretary concerned shall submit to the Congress, for each fiscal year for which assistance is provided for congregate services programs under this section, an annual report—(A) describing the activities being carried out with assistance under this section and the population being served by such activities;

(B) evaluating the effectiveness of the program of providing assistance for congregate services under this section, and a comparison of the effectiveness of the program under this section with the HOPE for Elderly Independence Program under section 8012 of this title; and

(C) containing any other information that the Secretary concerned considers helpful to the Congress in evaluating the effectiveness of this section.


(2) Submission of data to Secretary concernedThe Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of Agriculture shall provide, by regulation under subsection (m) of this section, for the submission of data by recipients of assistance under this section to be used in the repeat 1212 So in original. Probably should be “report”. required by paragraph (1).



(m) RegulationsThe Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of Agriculture shall, not later than the expiration of the 180-day period beginning on November 28, 1990, jointly issue any regulations necessary to carry out this section.


(n) Authorization of appropriations(1) Authorization and useThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $21,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $21,882,000 for fiscal year 1994, of which not more than—(A) the amount of such sums appropriated that, with respect to the total amount appropriated, represents the ratio of the total number of units of eligible federally assisted housing for elderly individuals assisted by programs administered by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to the total number of units assisted by programs administered by such Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture, shall be used for assistance for congregate services programs in eligible federally assisted housing administered by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development: 1313 So in original. The colon probably should be a semicolon. and

(B) the amount of such sums appropriated that, with respect to the total amount appropriated, represents the ratio of the total number of units of eligible federally assisted housing for elderly individuals assisted by programs administered by the Secretary of Agriculture to the total number of units assisted by programs administered by such Secretary and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, shall be used for assistance for congregate services programs in eligible federally assisted housing administered by the Secretary of Agriculture (through the Administrator of the Farmers Home Administration).


(2) AvailabilityAny amounts appropriated under this subsection shall remain available until expended.



(o) Reserve fundThe Secretary may reserve not more than 5 percent of the amounts made available in each fiscal year to supplement grants awarded to owners under this section when, in the determination of the Secretary, such supplemental adjustments are required to maintain adequate levels of services to eligible residents.


(Pub. L. 101–625, title VIII, § 802, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4304; Pub. L. 102–550, title VI, §§ 604(a), (b), 672, Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 3805, 3826; Pub. L. 110–234, title IV, §§ 4002(b)(1)(B), (N), (2)(LL), 4115(c)(1)(A)(i), (B)(vi), (2)(I), May 22, 2008, 122 Stat. 1096, 1098, 1109, 1110; Pub. L. 110–246, § 4(a), title IV, §§ 4002(b)(1)(B), (N), (2)(LL), 4115(c)(1)(A)(i), (B)(vi), (2)(I), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664, 1857–1859, 1870, 1871.)


References in TextThe Older Americans Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (d)(2)(B)(i), is Pub. L. 89–73, July 14, 1965, 79 Stat. 218, as amended. Title III of the Act is classified generally to subchapter III (§ 3021 et seq.) of chapter 35 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3001 of Title 42 and Tables.
The Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978, referred to in subsecs. (d)(2)(B)(ii), (i)(1)(A)(i), (B)(i), and (j)(3), is title IV of Pub. L. 95–557, Oct. 31, 1978, 92 Stat. 2104, as amended, which is classified principally to this chapter (§ 8001 et seq.). For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 8001 of this title and Tables.
The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, referred to in subsec. (j)(1)(A), is act June 25, 1938, ch. 676, 52 Stat. 1060, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 8 (§ 201 et seq.) of Title 29, Labor. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 201 of Title 29 and Tables.
The United States Housing Act of 1937, referred to in subsec. (k)(6)(A), is act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 896, as revised generally by Pub. L. 93–383, title II, § 201(a), Aug. 22, 1974, 88 Stat. 653, and amended. Title II of the Act, which was classified generally to subchapter II (§ 1437aa et seq.) of chapter 8 of this title, was repealed by Pub. L. 104–330, title V, § 501(a), Oct. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 4041. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short title note set out under section 1437 of this title and Tables.
Section 8(b)(2) of the United States Housing Act, referred to in subsec. (k)(6)(B), probably means section 8(b)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, which was classified to section 1437f(b)(2) of this title and was repealed by Pub. L. 98–181, title I [title II, § 209(a)(2)], Nov. 30, 1983, 97 Stat. 1183.
The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, referred to in subsec. (k)(9), is Pub. L. 92–203, Dec. 18, 1971, 85 Stat. 688, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 33 (§ 1601 et seq.) of Title 43, Public Lands. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1601 of Title 43 and Tables.

Codification
Pub. L. 110–234 and Pub. L. 110–246 made identical amendments to this section. The amendments by Pub. L. 110–234 were repealed by section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110–246.
Section was enacted as part of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, and not as part of the Congregate Housing Services Act of 1978 which comprises this chapter.
Section is comprised of section 802 of Pub. L. 101–625. Subsec. (p) of section 802 of Pub. L. 101–625 amended section 1437g of this title.
November 28, 1990, referred to in subsecs. (i)(1)(B)(i) and (m), was in the original “the date of the enactment of this Act” and November 5, 1990, referred to in subsec. (j)(3), was in the original “the date of the enactment of this section”, see Effective Date note below.

Amendments2008—Subsec. (d)(2)(A). Pub. L. 110–246, § 4002(b)(1)(N), (2)(LL), substituted “Supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits” for “Food stamps” in heading.
Subsec. (d)(2)(A)(i)(I). Pub. L. 110–246, § 4002(b)(1)(B), (2)(LL), made technical amendment to reference in original act which appears in text as reference to section 2018 of title 7.
Subsec. (d)(2)(A)(i)(II). Pub. L. 110–246, § 4115(c)(2)(I), struck out “(as defined in section 2012(e) of title 7)” after “benefits”.
Pub. L. 110–246, § 4115(c)(1)(A)(i), (B)(vi), substituted “benefits” for “coupons”.
1992—Subsec. (d)(4). Pub. L. 102–550, § 672, inserted after first sentence of concluding provisions “Such qualifications and standards shall include requiring each service coordinator to be trained in the aging process, elder services, disability services, eligibility for and procedures of Federal and applicable State entitlement programs, legal liability issues relating to providing service coordination, drug and alcohol use and abuse by the elderly, and mental health issues.”
Subsec. (i)(1)(B)(i). Pub. L. 102–550, § 604(b), substituted “6-year” for “3-year” in two places.
Subsec. (n)(1). Pub. L. 102–550, § 604(a), in introductory provisions, substituted provisions authorizing appropriations for fiscal years 1993 and 1994 for provisions authorizing appropriations of $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1991 and $26,100,000 for fiscal year 1992.

Effective Date of 2008 AmendmentAmendment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110–234 by Pub. L. 110–246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 110–234, except as otherwise provided, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as an Effective Date note under section 8701 of Title 7, Agriculture.
Amendment by sections 4002(b)(1)(B), (N), (2)(LL) and 4115(c)(1)(A)(i), (B)(vi), (2)(I) of Pub. L. 110–246 effective Oct. 1, 2008, see section 4407 of Pub. L. 110–246, set out as a note under section 1161 of Title 2, The Congress.

Effective Date of 1992 AmendmentAmendment by subtitles B through F of title VI [§§ 621–685] of Pub. L. 102–550 applicable upon expiration of 6-month period beginning Oct. 28, 1992, except as otherwise provided, see section 13642 of this title.

Effective DateThis section was enacted as part of Pub. L. 101–625, which was approved Nov. 28, 1990. However, this section was deemed enacted as of Nov. 5, 1990, by Pub. L. 101–507, title II, Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1358, set out as an Effective Date of 1990 Amendment note under section 1701q of Title 12, Banks and Banking.

RegulationsPub. L. 102–550, title VI, § 604(c), Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 3805, provided that:
“(1) Interim regulations.—Not later than the expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 1992], the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to the Congress a copy of proposed interim regulations implementing section 802 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act [42 U.S.C. 8011] with respect to eligible federally assisted housing (as such term is defined in section 802(k) of such Act) administered by each such Secretary. Not later than the expiration of the 45-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, but not before the expiration of the 15-day period beginning upon the submission of the proposed interim regulations to the Congress, each such Secretary shall publish interim regulations implementing such section 802, which shall take effect upon publication.

“(2) Final regulations.—Not later than the expiration of the 90-day period beginning upon the publication of interim regulations under paragraph (1), each such Secretary shall issue final regulations implementing section 802 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act after notice and opportunity for public comment regarding the interim regulations, pursuant to the provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States Code (notwithstanding subsections (a)(2), (b)(B), and (d)(3) of such section). The duration of the period for public comment under such section 553 shall be not less than 60 days, and the final regulations shall take effect upon issuance.

“(3) Failure under 1990 act.—This subsection may not be construed to authorize any failure to comply with the requirements of section 802(m) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act.”





Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding section 1681 of Title 48, Territories and Insular Possessions.


