§ 1395kk–1. Contracts with medicare administrative contractors(a) Authority(1) Authority to enter into contractsThe Secretary may enter into contracts with any eligible entity to serve as a medicare administrative contractor with respect to the performance of any or all of the functions described in paragraph (4) or parts of those functions (or, to the extent provided in a contract, to secure performance thereof by other entities).


(2) Eligibility of entitiesAn entity is eligible to enter into a contract with respect to the performance of a particular function described in paragraph (4) only if—(A) the entity has demonstrated capability to carry out such function;

(B) the entity complies with such conflict of interest standards as are generally applicable to Federal acquisition and procurement;

(C) the entity has sufficient assets to financially support the performance of such function; and

(D) the entity meets such other requirements as the Secretary may impose.


(3) Medicare administrative contractor definedFor purposes of this subchapter and subchapter XI of this chapter—(A) In generalThe term “medicare administrative contractor” means an agency, organization, or other person with a contract under this section.


(B) Appropriate medicare administrative contractorWith respect to the performance of a particular function in relation to an individual entitled to benefits under part A of this subchapter or enrolled under part B of this subchapter, or both, a specific provider of services or supplier (or class of such providers of services or suppliers), the “appropriate” medicare administrative contractor is the medicare administrative contractor that has a contract under this section with respect to the performance of that function in relation to that individual, provider of services or supplier or class of provider of services or supplier.



(4) Functions describedThe functions referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) are payment functions (including the function of developing local coverage determinations, as defined in section 1395ff(f)(2)(B) of this title), provider services functions, and functions relating to services furnished to individuals entitled to benefits under part A of this subchapter or enrolled under part B of this subchapter, or both, as follows:(A) Determination of payment amountsDetermining (subject to the provisions of section 1395oo of this title and to such review by the Secretary as may be provided for by the contracts) the amount of the payments required pursuant to this subchapter to be made to providers of services, suppliers and individuals.


(B) Making paymentsMaking payments described in subparagraph (A) (including receipt, disbursement, and accounting for funds in making such payments).


(C) Beneficiary education and assistanceProviding education and outreach to individuals entitled to benefits under part A of this subchapter or enrolled under part B of this subchapter, or both, and providing assistance to those individuals with specific issues, concerns, or problems.


(D) Provider consultative servicesProviding consultative services to institutions, agencies, and other persons to enable them to establish and maintain fiscal records necessary for purposes of this subchapter and otherwise to qualify as providers of services or suppliers.


(E) Communication with providersCommunicating to providers of services and suppliers any information or instructions furnished to the medicare administrative contractor by the Secretary, and facilitating communication between such providers and suppliers and the Secretary.


(F) Provider education and technical assistancePerforming the functions relating to provider education, training, and technical assistance.


(G) Additional functionsPerforming such other functions, including (subject to paragraph (5)) functions under the Medicare Integrity Program under section 1395ddd of this title, as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.



(5) Relationship to MIP contracts(A) Nonduplication of dutiesIn entering into contracts under this section, the Secretary shall assure that functions of medicare administrative contractors in carrying out activities under parts A and B of this subchapter do not duplicate activities carried out under a contract entered into under the Medicare Integrity Program under section 1395ddd of this title. The previous sentence shall not apply with respect to the activity described in section 1395ddd(b)(5) of this title (relating to prior authorization of certain items of durable medical equipment under section 1395m(a)(15) of this title).


(B) ConstructionAn entity shall not be treated as a medicare administrative contractor merely by reason of having entered into a contract with the Secretary under section 1395ddd of this title.



(6) Application of Federal Acquisition RegulationExcept to the extent inconsistent with a specific requirement of this section, the Federal Acquisition Regulation applies to contracts under this section.



(b) Contracting requirements(1) Use of competitive procedures(A) In generalExcept as provided in laws with general applicability to Federal acquisition and procurement or in subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall use competitive procedures when entering into contracts with medicare administrative contractors under this section, taking into account performance quality as well as price and other factors.


(B) Renewal of contractsThe Secretary may renew a contract with a medicare administrative contractor under this section from term to term without regard to section 6101 of title 41 or any other provision of law requiring competition, if the medicare administrative contractor has met or exceeded the performance requirements applicable with respect to the contract and contractor, except that the Secretary shall provide for the application of competitive procedures under such a contract not less frequently than once every 5 years.


(C) Transfer of functionsThe Secretary may transfer functions among medicare administrative contractors consistent with the provisions of this paragraph. The Secretary shall ensure that performance quality is considered in such transfers. The Secretary shall provide public notice (whether in the Federal Register or otherwise) of any such transfer (including a description of the functions so transferred, a description of the providers of services and suppliers affected by such transfer, and contact information for the contractors involved).


(D) Incentives for qualityThe Secretary shall provide incentives for medicare administrative contractors to provide quality service and to promote efficiency.



(2) Compliance with requirementsNo contract under this section shall be entered into with any medicare administrative contractor unless the Secretary finds that such medicare administrative contractor will perform its obligations under the contract efficiently and effectively and will meet such requirements as to financial responsibility, legal authority, quality of services provided, and other matters as the Secretary finds pertinent.


(3) Performance requirements(A) Development of specific performance requirements(i) In generalThe Secretary shall develop contract performance requirements to carry out the specific requirements applicable under this subchapter to a function described in subsection (a)(4) of this section and shall develop standards for measuring the extent to which a contractor has met such requirements. Such requirements shall include specific performance duties expected of a medical director of a medicare administrative contractor, including requirements relating to professional relations and the availability of such director to conduct medical determination activities within the jurisdiction of such a contractor.


(ii) ConsultationIn developing such performance requirements and standards for measurement, the Secretary shall consult with providers of services, organizations representative of beneficiaries under this subchapter, and organizations and agencies performing functions necessary to carry out the purposes of this section with respect to such performance requirements.


(iii) Publication of standardsThe Secretary shall make such performance requirements and measurement standards available to the public.



(B) ConsiderationsThe Secretary shall include, as one of the standards developed under subparagraph (A), provider and beneficiary satisfaction levels.


(C) Inclusion in contractsAll contractor performance requirements shall be set forth in the contract between the Secretary and the appropriate medicare administrative contractor. Such performance requirements—(i) shall reflect the performance requirements published under subparagraph (A), but may include additional performance requirements;

(ii) shall be used for evaluating contractor performance under the contract; and

(iii) shall be consistent with the written statement of work provided under the contract.



(4) Information requirementsThe Secretary shall not enter into a contract with a medicare administrative contractor under this section unless the contractor agrees—(A) to furnish to the Secretary such timely information and reports as the Secretary may find necessary in performing his functions under this subchapter; and

(B) to maintain such records and afford such access thereto as the Secretary finds necessary to assure the correctness and verification of the information and reports under subparagraph (A) and otherwise to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.


(5) Surety bondA contract with a medicare administrative contractor under this section may require the medicare administrative contractor, and any of its officers or employees certifying payments or disbursing funds pursuant to the contract, or otherwise participating in carrying out the contract, to give surety bond to the United States in such amount as the Secretary may deem appropriate.



(c) Terms and conditions(1) In generalA contract with any medicare administrative contractor under this section may contain such terms and conditions as the Secretary finds necessary or appropriate and may provide for advances of funds to the medicare administrative contractor for the making of payments by it under subsection (a)(4)(B) of this section.


(2) Prohibition on mandates for certain data collectionThe Secretary may not require, as a condition of entering into, or renewing, a contract under this section, that the medicare administrative contractor match data obtained other than in its activities under this subchapter with data used in the administration of this subchapter for purposes of identifying situations in which the provisions of section 1395y(b) of this title may apply.



(d) Limitation on liability of medicare administrative contractors and certain officers(1) Certifying officerNo individual designated pursuant to a contract under this section as a certifying officer shall, in the absence of the reckless disregard of the individual’s obligations or the intent by that individual to defraud the United States, be liable with respect to any payments certified by the individual under this section.


(2) Disbursing officerNo disbursing officer shall, in the absence of the reckless disregard of the officer’s obligations or the intent by that officer to defraud the United States, be liable with respect to any payment by such officer under this section if it was based upon an authorization (which meets the applicable requirements for such internal controls established by the Comptroller General of the United States) of a certifying officer designated as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection.


(3) Liability of medicare administrative contractor(A) In generalNo medicare administrative contractor shall be liable to the United States for a payment by a certifying or disbursing officer unless, in connection with such payment, the medicare administrative contractor acted with reckless disregard of its obligations under its medicare administrative contract or with intent to defraud the United States.


(B) Relationship to False Claims ActNothing in this subsection shall be construed to limit liability for conduct that would constitute a violation of sections 3729 through 3731 of title 31.



(4) Indemnification by Secretary(A) In generalSubject to subparagraphs (B) and (D), in the case of a medicare administrative contractor (or a person who is a director, officer, or employee of such a contractor or who is engaged by the contractor to participate directly in the claims administration process) who is made a party to any judicial or administrative proceeding arising from or relating directly to the claims administration process under this subchapter, the Secretary may, to the extent the Secretary determines to be appropriate and as specified in the contract with the contractor, indemnify the contractor and such persons.


(B) ConditionsThe Secretary may not provide indemnification under subparagraph (A) insofar as the liability for such costs arises directly from conduct that is determined by the judicial proceeding or by the Secretary to be criminal in nature, fraudulent, or grossly negligent. If indemnification is provided by the Secretary with respect to a contractor before a determination that such costs arose directly from such conduct, the contractor shall reimburse the Secretary for costs of indemnification.


(C) Scope of indemnificationIndemnification by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) may include payment of judgments, settlements (subject to subparagraph (D)), awards, and costs (including reasonable legal expenses).


(D) Written approval for settlements or compromisesA contractor or other person described in subparagraph (A) may not propose to negotiate a settlement or compromise of a proceeding described in such subparagraph without the prior written approval of the Secretary to negotiate such settlement or compromise. Any indemnification under subparagraph (A) with respect to amounts paid under a settlement or compromise of a proceeding described in such subparagraph are conditioned upon prior written approval by the Secretary of the final settlement or compromise.


(E) ConstructionNothing in this paragraph shall be construed—(i) to change any common law immunity that may be available to a medicare administrative contractor or person described in subparagraph (A); or

(ii) to permit the payment of costs not otherwise allowable, reasonable, or allocable under the Federal Acquisition Regulation.




(e) Requirements for information security(1) Development of information security programA medicare administrative contractor that performs the functions referred to in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (a)(4) of this section (relating to determining and making payments) shall implement a contractor-wide information security program to provide information security for the operation and assets of the contractor with respect to such functions under this subchapter. An information security program under this paragraph shall meet the requirements for information security programs imposed on Federal agencies under paragraphs (1) through (8) of section 3544(b) of title 44 (other than the requirements under paragraphs (2)(D)(i), (5)(A), and (5)(B) of such section).


(2) Independent audits(A) Performance of annual evaluationsEach year a medicare administrative contractor that performs the functions referred to in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (a)(4) of this section (relating to determining and making payments) shall undergo an evaluation of the information security of the contractor with respect to such functions under this subchapter. The evaluation shall—(i) be performed by an entity that meets such requirements for independence as the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services may establish; and

(ii) test the effectiveness of information security control techniques of an appropriate subset of the contractor’s information systems (as defined in section 3502(8) of title 44) relating to such functions under this subchapter and an assessment of compliance with the requirements of this subsection and related information security policies, procedures, standards and guidelines, including policies and procedures as may be prescribed by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and applicable information security standards promulgated under section 11331 of title 40.


(B) Deadline for initial evaluation(i) New contractorsIn the case of a medicare administrative contractor covered by this subsection that has not previously performed the functions referred to in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (a)(4) of this section (relating to determining and making payments) as a fiscal intermediary or carrier under section 1395h or 1395u of this title, the first independent evaluation conducted pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be completed prior to commencing such functions.


(ii) Other contractorsIn the case of a medicare administrative contractor covered by this subsection that is not described in clause (i), the first independent evaluation conducted pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be completed within 1 year after the date the contractor commences functions referred to in clause (i) under this section.



(C) Reports on evaluations(i) To the Department of Health and Human ServicesThe results of independent evaluations under subparagraph (A) shall be submitted promptly to the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and to the Secretary.


(ii) To CongressThe Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services shall submit to Congress annual reports on the results of such evaluations, including assessments of the scope and sufficiency of such evaluations.


(iii) Agency reportingThe Secretary shall address the results of such evaluations in reports required under section 3544(c) of title 44.





(f) Incentives to improve contractor performance in provider education and outreachThe Secretary shall use specific claims payment error rates or similar methodology of medicare administrative contractors in the processing or reviewing of medicare claims in order to give such contractors an incentive to implement effective education and outreach programs for providers of services and suppliers.


(g) Communications with beneficiaries, providers of services and suppliers(1) Communication strategyThe Secretary shall develop a strategy for communications with individuals entitled to benefits under part A of this subchapter or enrolled under part B of this subchapter, or both, and with providers of services and suppliers under this subchapter.


(2) Response to written inquiriesEach medicare administrative contractor shall, for those providers of services and suppliers which submit claims to the contractor for claims processing and for those individuals entitled to benefits under part A of this subchapter or enrolled under part B of this subchapter, or both, with respect to whom claims are submitted for claims processing, provide general written responses (which may be through electronic transmission) in a clear, concise, and accurate manner to inquiries of providers of services, suppliers, and individuals entitled to benefits under part A of this subchapter or enrolled under part B of this subchapter, or both, concerning the programs under this subchapter within 45 business days of the date of receipt of such inquiries.


(3) Response to toll-free linesThe Secretary shall ensure that each medicare administrative contractor shall provide, for those providers of services and suppliers which submit claims to the contractor for claims processing and for those individuals entitled to benefits under part A of this subchapter or enrolled under part B of this subchapter, or both, with respect to whom claims are submitted for claims processing, a toll-free telephone number at which such individuals, providers of services, and suppliers may obtain information regarding billing, coding, claims, coverage, and other appropriate information under this subchapter.


(4) Monitoring of contractor responses(A) In generalEach medicare administrative contractor shall, consistent with standards developed by the Secretary under subparagraph (B)—(i) maintain a system for identifying who provides the information referred to in paragraphs (2) and (3); and

(ii) monitor the accuracy, consistency, and timeliness of the information so provided.


(B) Development of standards(i) In generalThe Secretary shall establish and make public standards to monitor the accuracy, consistency, and timeliness of the information provided in response to written and telephone inquiries under this subsection. Such standards shall be consistent with the performance requirements established under subsection (b)(3) of this section.


(ii) EvaluationIn conducting evaluations of individual medicare administrative contractors, the Secretary shall take into account the results of the monitoring conducted under subparagraph (A) taking into account as performance requirements the standards established under clause (i). The Secretary shall, in consultation with organizations representing providers of services, suppliers, and individuals entitled to benefits under part A of this subchapter or enrolled under part B of this subchapter, or both, establish standards relating to the accuracy, consistency, and timeliness of the information so provided.



(C) Direct monitoringNothing in this paragraph shall be construed as preventing the Secretary from directly monitoring the accuracy, consistency, and timeliness of the information so provided.



(5) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this subsection.



(Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title XVIII, § 1874A, as added and amended Pub. L. 108–173, title IX, §§ 911(a)(1), 912(a), 921(b)(1), (c)(1), 934(a), 940A(b), Dec. 8, 2003, 117 Stat. 2378, 2387–2389, 2406, 2417; Pub. L. 111–152, title I, § 1302, Mar. 30, 2010, 124 Stat. 1057.)

Codification
In subsec. (b)(1)(B), “section 6101 of title 41” substituted for “section 5 of title 41, United States Code,” on authority of Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3854, which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.

Amendments2010—Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 111–152 struck out subsec. (h) which related to conduct of prepayment review.
2003—Subsec. (b)(3)(A)(i). Pub. L. 108–173, § 940A(b), inserted at end “Such requirements shall include specific performance duties expected of a medical director of a medicare administrative contractor, including requirements relating to professional relations and the availability of such director to conduct medical determination activities within the jurisdiction of such a contractor.”
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 108–173, § 912(a), added subsec. (e).
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 108–173, § 921(b)(1), added subsec. (f).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 108–173, § 921(c)(1), added subsec. (g).
Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 108–173, § 934(a), added subsec. (h).

Effective Date of 2003 AmendmentPub. L. 108–173, title IX, § 921(c)(2), Dec. 8, 2003, 117 Stat. 2390, provided that: “The amendment made by paragraph (1) [amending this section] shall take effect October 1, 2004.”

Pub. L. 108–173, title IX, § 934(b), Dec. 8, 2003, 117 Stat. 2407, provided that:
“(1) In general.—Except as provided in this subsection, the amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall take effect 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 8, 2003].

“(2) Deadline for promulgation of certain regulations.—The Secretary [of Health and Human Services] shall first issue regulations under section 1874A(h) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395kk–1(h)], as added by subsection (a), by not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 8, 2003].

“(3) Application of standard protocols for random prepayment review.—Section 1874A(h)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1395kk–1(h)(1)(B)], as added by subsection (a), shall apply to random prepayment reviews conducted on or after such date (not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 8, 2003]) as the Secretary shall specify.”




Effective Date; Transition RulePub. L. 108–173, title IX, § 911(d), Dec. 8, 2003, 117 Stat. 2385, provided that:
“(1) Effective date.—“(A) In general.—Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the amendments made by this section [enacting this section and amending sections 1395h and 1395u of this title] shall take effect on October 1, 2005, and the Secretary [of Health and Human Services] is authorized to take such steps before such date as may be necessary to implement such amendments on a timely basis.

“(B) Construction for current contracts.—Such amendments shall not apply to contracts in effect before the date specified under subparagraph (A) that continue to retain the terms and conditions in effect on such date (except as otherwise provided under this Act [see Tables for classification], other than under this section) until such date as the contract is let out for competitive bidding under such amendments.

“(C) Deadline for competitive bidding.—The Secretary shall provide for the letting by competitive bidding of all contracts for functions of medicare administrative contractors for annual contract periods that begin on or after October 1, 2011.


“(2) General transition rules.—“(A) Authority to continue to enter into new agreements and contracts and waiver of provider nomination provisions during transition.—Prior to October 1, 2005, the Secretary may, consistent with subparagraph (B), continue to enter into agreements under section 1816 and contracts under section 1842 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395h, 1395u). The Secretary may enter into new agreements under section 1816 prior to October 1, 2005, without regard to any of the provider nomination provisions of such section.

“(B) Appropriate transition.—The Secretary shall take such steps as are necessary to provide for an appropriate transition from agreements under section 1816 and contracts under section 1842 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395h, 1395u) to contracts under section 1874A [42 U.S.C. 1395kk–1], as added by subsection (a)(1).


“(3) Authorizing continuation of mip functions under current contracts and agreements and under transition contracts.—Notwithstanding the amendments made by this section [enacting this section and amending sections 1395h and 1395u of this title], the provisions contained in the exception in section 1893(d)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ddd(d)(2)) shall continue to apply during the period that begins on the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 8, 2003] and ends on October 1, 2011, and any reference in such provisions to an agreement or contract shall be deemed to include a contract under section 1874A of such Act [42 U.S.C. 1395kk–1], as inserted by subsection (a)(1), that continues the activities referred to in such provisions.”




ConstructionPub. L. 108–173, title IX, § 901(a), Dec. 8, 2003, 117 Stat. 2374, provided that: 
“Nothing in this title [see Tables for classification] shall be construed—“(1) to compromise or affect existing legal remedies for addressing fraud or abuse, whether it be criminal prosecution, civil enforcement, or administrative remedies, including under sections 3729 through 3733 of title 31, United States Code (commonly known as the ‘False Claims Act’); or

“(2) to prevent or impede the Department of Health and Human Services in any way from its ongoing efforts to eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse in the medicare program.


Furthermore, the consolidation of medicare administrative contracting set forth in this division [Pub. L. 108–173 does not contain any divisions] does not constitute consolidation of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund or reflect any position on that issue.”
