§ 617a. “Colorado River Dam Fund”(a) Creation of fund; purpose; receipts and expenditures under control of Secretary of the In­teriorThere is established a special fund, to be known as the “Colorado River Dam fund” (hereinafter referred to as the “fund”), and to be available, as hereafter provided for, only for carrying out the provisions of this subchapter. All revenues received in carrying out the provisions of this subchapter shall be paid into and expenditures shall be made out of the fund, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior.


(b) Advancements to fund by Secretary of the Treasury; allocation; repayment; interestThe Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to advance to the fund, from time to time and within the appropriations therefor, such amounts as the Secretary of the Interior deems necessary for carrying out the provisions of this subchapter..11 So in original. Of this amount the sum of $25,000,000 shall be allocated to flood control and shall be repaid to the United States out of 62½ per centum of revenues, if any, in excess of the amount necessary to meet periodical payments during the period of amortization, as provided in section 617c of this title. If said sum of $25,000,000 is not repaid in full during the period of amortization, then 62½ per centum of all net revenues shall be applied to payment of the remainder. Interest at the rate of 4 per centum per annum accruing during the year upon the amounts so advanced and remaining unpaid shall be paid annually out of the fund, except as herein otherwise provided.


(c) Limitation on use made of advancementsMoneys in the fund advanced under subsection (b) of this section shall be available only for expenditures for construction and the payment of interest, during construction, upon the amounts so advanced. No expenditures out of the fund shall be made for operation and maintenance except from appropriations therefor.


(d) Unpaid interest on advancements; charge on fund; rate of interestThe Secretary of the Treasury shall charge the fund as of June 30 in each year with such amount as may be necessary for the payment of interest on advances made under subsection (b) of this section at the rate of 4 per centum per annum accrued during the year upon the amounts so advanced and remaining unpaid, except that if the fund is insufficient to meet the payment of interest the Secretary of the Treasury may, in his discretion, defer any part of such payment, and the amount so deferred shall bear interest at the rate of 4 per centum per annum until paid.


(e) Money in fund in excess of amount needed; certification of fact; dispositionThe Secretary of the Interior shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury, at the close of each fiscal year, the amount of money in the fund in excess of the amount necessary for construction, operation, and maintenance, and payment of interest. Upon receipt of each such certificate the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to charge the fund with the amount so certified as repayment of the advances made under subsection (b) of this section, which amount shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts.


(Dec. 21, 1928, ch. 42, § 2, 45 Stat. 1057; Pub. L. 98–381, title I, § 103(a)(1), Aug. 17, 1984, 98 Stat. 1334.)

Amendments1984—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 98–381 substituted a period for “, except that the aggregate amount of such advances shall not exceed the sum of $165,000,000” at end of first sentence.


