§ 290bb–7. Substance abuse treatment services for children and adolescents(a) In generalThe Secretary shall award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements to public and private nonprofit entities, including Native Alaskan entities and Indian tribes and tribal organizations, for the purpose of providing substance abuse treatment services for children and adolescents.


(b) PriorityIn awarding grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements under subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall give priority to applicants who propose to—(1) apply evidenced-based and cost effective methods for the treatment of substance abuse among children and adolescents;

(2) coordinate the provision of treatment services with other social service agencies in the community, including educational, juvenile justice, child welfare, and mental health agencies;

(3) provide a continuum of integrated treatment services, including case management, for children and adolescents with substance abuse disorders and their families;

(4) provide treatment that is gender-specific and culturally appropriate;

(5) involve and work with families of children and adolescents receiving treatment;

(6) provide aftercare services for children and adolescents and their families after completion of substance abuse treatment; and

(7) address the relationship between substance abuse and violence.


(c) Duration of grantsThe Secretary shall award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements under subsection (a) of this section for periods not to exceed 5 fiscal years.


(d) ApplicationAn entity desiring a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under subsection (a) of this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(e) EvaluationAn entity that receives a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under subsection (a) of this section shall submit, in the application for such grant, contract, or cooperative agreement, a plan for the evaluation of any project undertaken with funds provided under this section. Such entity shall provide the Secretary with periodic evaluations of the progress of such project and such evaluation at the completion of such project as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $40,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2002 and 2003.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title V, § 514, as added Pub. L. 106–310, div. B, title XXXI, § 3104(a), Oct. 17, 2000, 114 Stat. 1171.)

Codification
Another section 514 of act July 1, 1944, is classified to section 290bb–9 of this title.


