§ 5196. Detailed functions of administration(a) In generalIn order to carry out the policy described in section 5195 of this title, the Administrator shall have the authorities provided in this section.


(b) Federal emergency response plans and programsThe Administrator may prepare Federal response plans and programs for the emergency preparedness of the United States and sponsor and direct such plans and programs. To prepare such plans and programs and coordinate such plans and programs with State efforts, the Administrator may request such reports on State plans and operations for emergency preparedness as may be necessary to keep the President, Congress, and the States advised of the status of emergency preparedness in the United States.


(c) Delegation of emergency preparedness responsibilitiesWith the approval of the President, the Administrator may delegate to other departments and agencies of the Federal Government appropriate emergency preparedness responsibilities and review and coordinate the emergency preparedness activities of the departments and agencies with each other and with the activities of the States and neighboring countries.


(d) Communications and warningsThe Administrator may make appropriate provision for necessary emergency preparedness communications and for dissemination of warnings to the civilian population of a hazard.


(e) Emergency preparedness measuresThe Administrator may study and develop emergency preparedness measures designed to afford adequate protection of life and property, including—(1) research and studies as to the best methods of treating the effects of hazards;

(2) developing shelter designs and materials for protective covering or construction;

(3) developing equipment or facilities and effecting the standardization thereof to meet emergency preparedness requirements; and

(4) plans that take into account the needs of individuals with pets and service animals prior to, during, and following a major disaster or emergency.


(f) Training programs(1) The Administrator may—(A) conduct or arrange, by contract or otherwise, for training programs for the instruction of emergency preparedness officials and other persons in the organization, operation, and techniques of emergency preparedness;

(B) conduct or operate schools or including the payment of travel expenses, in accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5 and the Standardized Government Travel Regulations, and per diem allowances, in lieu of subsistence for trainees in attendance or the furnishing of subsistence and quarters for trainees and instructors on terms prescribed by the Administrator; and

(C) provide instructors and training aids as necessary.


(2) The terms prescribed by the Administrator for the payment of travel expenses and per diem allowances authorized by this subsection shall include a provision that such payment shall not exceed one-half of the total cost of such expenses.

(3) The Administrator may lease real property required for the purpose of carrying out this subsection, but may not acquire fee title to property unless specifically authorized by law.


(g) Public dissemination of emergency preparedness informationThe Administrator may publicly disseminate appropriate emergency preparedness information by all appropriate means.


(h) Emergency preparedness compacts(1) The Administrator shall establish a program supporting the development of emergency preparedness compacts for acts of terrorism, disasters, and emergencies throughout the Nation, by—(A) identifying and cataloging existing emergency preparedness compacts for acts of terrorism, disasters, and emergencies at the State and local levels of government;

(B) disseminating to State and local governments examples of best practices in the development of emergency preparedness compacts and models of existing emergency preparedness compacts, including agreements involving interstate jurisdictions; and

(C) completing an inventory of Federal response capabilities for acts of terrorism, disasters, and emergencies, making such inventory available to appropriate Federal, State, and local government officials, and ensuring that such inventory is as current and accurate as practicable.


(2) The Administrator may—(A) assist and encourage the States to negotiate and enter into interstate emergency preparedness compacts;

(B) review the terms and conditions of such proposed compacts in order to assist, to the extent feasible, in obtaining uniformity between such compacts and consistency with Federal emergency response plans and programs;

(C) assist and coordinate the activities under such compacts; and

(D) aid and assist in encouraging reciprocal emergency preparedness legislation by the States which will permit the furnishing of mutual aid for emergency preparedness purposes in the event of a hazard which cannot be adequately met or controlled by a State or political subdivision thereof threatened with or experiencing a hazard.


(3) A copy of each interstate emergency preparedness compact shall be transmitted promptly to the Senate and the House of Representatives. The consent of Congress is deemed to be granted to each such compact upon the expiration of the 60-day period beginning on the date on which the compact is transmitted to Congress.

(4) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as preventing Congress from disapproving, or withdrawing at any time its consent to, any interstate emergency preparedness compact.


(i) Materials and facilities(1) The Administrator may procure by condemnation or otherwise, construct, lease, transport, store, maintain, renovate or distribute materials and facilities for emergency preparedness, with the right to take immediate possession thereof.

(2) Facilities acquired by purchase, donation, or other means of transfer may be occupied, used, and improved for the purposes of this subchapter before the approval of title by the Attorney General as required by sections 3111 and 3112 of title 40.

(3) The Administrator may lease real property required for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subsection, but shall not acquire fee title to property unless specifically authorized by law.

(4) The Administrator may procure and maintain under this subsection radiological, chemical, bacteriological, and biological agent monitoring and decontamination devices and distribute such devices by loan or grant to the States for emergency preparedness purposes, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall prescribe.


(j) Financial contributions(1) The Administrator may make financial contributions, on the basis of programs or projects approved by the Administrator, to the States for emergency preparedness purposes, including the procurement, construction, leasing, or renovating of materials and facilities. Such contributions shall be made on such terms or conditions as the Administrator shall prescribe, including the method of purchase, the quantity, quality, or specifications of the materials or facilities, and such other factors or care or treatment to assure the uniformity, availability, and good condition of such materials or facilities.

(2) The Administrator may make financial contributions, on the basis of programs or projects approved by the Administrator, to the States and local authorities for animal emergency preparedness purposes, including the procurement, construction, leasing, or renovating of emergency shelter facilities and materials that will accommodate people with pets and service animals.

(3) No contribution may be made under this subsection for the procurement of land or for the purchase of personal equipment for State or local emergency preparedness workers.

(4) The amounts authorized to be contributed by the Administrator to each State for organizational equipment shall be equally matched by such State from any source it determines is consistent with its laws.

(5) Financial contributions to the States for shelters and other protective facilities shall be determined by taking the amount of funds appropriated or available to the Administrator for such facilities in each fiscal year and apportioning such funds among the States in the ratio which the urban population of the critical target areas (as determined by the Administrator) in each State, at the time of the determination, bears to the total urban population of the critical target areas of all of the States.

(6) The amounts authorized to be contributed by the Administrator to each State for such shelters and protective facilities shall be equally matched by such State from any source it determines is consistent with its laws and, if not matched within a reasonable time, the Administrator may reallocate such amounts to other States under the formula described in paragraph (4).11 See References in Text note below. The value of any land contributed by any State or political subdivision thereof shall be excluded from the computation of the State share under this subsection.

(7) The amounts paid to any State under this subsection shall be expended solely in carrying out the purposes set forth herein and in accordance with State emergency preparedness programs or projects approved by the Administrator. The Administrator shall make no contribution toward the cost of any program or project for the procurement, construction, or leasing of any facility which (A) is intended for use, in whole or in part, for any purpose other than emergency preparedness, and (B) is of such kind that upon completion it will, in the judgment of the Administrator, be capable of producing sufficient revenue to provide reasonable assurance of the retirement or repayment of such cost; except that (subject to the preceding provisions of this subsection) the Administrator may make a contribution to any State toward that portion of the cost of the construction, reconstruction, or enlargement of any facility which the Administrator determines to be directly attributable to the incorporation in such facility of any feature of construction or design not necessary for the principal intended purpose thereof but which is, in the judgment of the Administrator necessary for the use of such facility for emergency preparedness purposes.

(8) The Administrator shall submit to Congress a report, at least annually, regarding all contributions made pursuant to this subsection.

(9) All laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors in the performance of construction work financed with the assistance of any contribution of Federal funds made by the Administrator under this subsection shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar construction in the locality as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with sections 3141–3144, 3146, and 3147 of title 40, and every such employee shall receive compensation at a rate not less than one and ½ times the basic rate of pay of the employee for all hours worked in any workweek in excess of eight hours in any workday or 40 hours in the workweek, as the case may be. The Administrator shall make no contribution of Federal funds without first obtaining adequate assurance that these labor standards will be maintained upon the construction work. The Secretary of Labor shall have, with respect to the labor standards specified in this subsection, the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (5 U.S.C. App.) and section 3145 of title 40.


(k) Sale or disposal of certain materials and facilitiesThe Administrator may arrange for the sale or disposal of materials and facilities found by the Administrator to be unnecessary or unsuitable for emergency preparedness purposes in the same manner as provided for excess property under chapters 1 to 11 of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41. Any funds received as proceeds from the sale or other disposition of such materials and facilities shall be deposited into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.


(Pub. L. 93–288, title VI, § 611, as added Pub. L. 103–337, div. C, title XXXIV, § 3411(a)(3), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 3102; amended Pub. L. 104–66, title II, § 2071, Dec. 21, 1995, 109 Stat. 729; Pub. L. 108–458, title VII, § 7406, Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3851; Pub. L. 109–308, § 3, Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1725; Pub. L. 111–351, § 3(c)(2), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3864.)


References in TextParagraph (4), referred to in subsec. (j)(6), was redesignated paragraph (5) by Pub. L. 109–308, § 3(2), Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1725.
Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950, referred to in subsec. (j)(9), is Reorg. Plan No. 14 of 1950, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3176, 64 Stat. 1267, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Codification
In subsec. (i)(2), “sections 3111 and 3112 of title 40” substituted for “section 355 of the Revised Statutes (40 U.S.C. 255)” and, in subsec. (j)(9), “sections 3141–3144, 3146, and 3147 of title 40” substituted for “the Act of March 3, 1931 (commonly known as the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a–276a–5))” and “section 3145 of title 40” substituted for “section 2 of the Act of June 13, 1934 (40 U.S.C. 276(c))”, meaning 276c, on authority of Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c), Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1303, the first section of which enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works.
In subsec. (k), “chapters 1 to 11 of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41” substituted for “the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.)” on authority of Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c), Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1303, which Act enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, and Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3854, which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.

Prior ProvisionsProvisions similar to those in this section were contained in section 2281 of Title 50, Appendix, War and National Defense, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 103–337, § 3412(a).

Amendments2011—Pub. L. 111–351 substituted “Administrator” for “Director” wherever appearing.
2006—Subsec. (e)(4). Pub. L. 109–308, § 3(1), added par. (4).
Subsec. (j)(2) to (9). Pub. L. 109–308, § 3(2), added par. (2) and redesignated former pars. (2) to (8) as (3) to (9), respectively.
2004—Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 108–458 substituted “Emergency preparedness compacts” for “Interstate emergency preparedness compacts” in subsec. heading, added par. (1), redesignated former pars. (1) to (3) as (2) to (4), respectively, and realigned margins of par. (2), as redesignated.
1995—Subsec. (i)(3) to (5). Pub. L. 104–66 redesignated pars. (4) and (5) as (3) and (4), respectively, and struck out former par. (3) which read as follows: “The Director shall submit to Congress a report, at least quarterly, describing all property acquisitions made pursuant to this subsection.”


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components, authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, see section 315(a)(1) of Title 6, Domestic Security.
For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.

National Capital Region Mutual AidPub. L. 108–458, title VII, § 7302, Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3840, as amended by Pub. L. 110–250, § 1, June 26, 2008, 122 Stat. 2318, provided that:
“(a) Definitions.—In this section:“(1) Authorized representative of the federal government.—The term ‘authorized representative of the Federal Government’ means any individual or individuals designated by the President with respect to the executive branch, the Chief Justice with respect to the Federal judiciary, or the President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives with respect to Congress, or their designees, to request assistance under a mutual aid agreement for an emergency or public service event.

“(2) Chief operating officer.—The term ‘chief operating officer’ means the official designated by law to declare an emergency in and for the locality of that chief operating officer.

“(3) Emergency.—The term ‘emergency’ means a major disaster or emergency declared by the President, or a state of emergency declared by the mayor of the District of Columbia, the Governor of the State of Maryland or the Commonwealth of Virginia, or the declaration of a local emergency by the chief operating officer of a locality, or their designees, that triggers mutual aid under the terms of a mutual aid agreement.

“(4) Employee.—The term ‘employee’ means the employees of the party who are committed in a mutual aid agreement to prepare for or who respond to an emergency or public service event.

“(5) Locality.—The term ‘locality’ means a county, city, town, or other governmental agency, governmental authority, or governmental institution with the power to sue or be sued in its own name, within the National Capital Region.

“(6) Mutual aid agreement.—The term ‘mutual aid agreement’ means an agreement, authorized under subsection (b), for the provision of police, fire, rescue and other public safety and health or medical services to any party to the agreement during a public service event, an emergency, or pre-planned training event.

“(7) National capital region or region.—The term ‘National Capital Region’ or ‘Region’ means the area defined under section 2674(f)(2) of title 10, United States Code, and those counties with a border abutting that area and any municipalities therein.

“(8) Party.—The term ‘party’ means the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, the District of Columbia, and any of the localities duly executing a Mutual Aid Agreement under this section.

“(9) Public service event.—The term ‘public service event’—“(A) means any undeclared emergency, incident or situation in preparation for or response to which the mayor of the District of Columbia, an authorized representative of the Federal Government, the Governor of the State of Maryland, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, or the chief operating officer of a locality in the National Capital Region, or their designees, requests or provides assistance under a Mutual Aid Agreement within the National Capital Region; and

“(B) includes Presidential inaugurations, public gatherings, demonstrations and protests, and law enforcement, fire, rescue, emergency health and medical services, transportation, communications, public works and engineering, mass care, and other support that require human resources, equipment, facilities or services supplemental to or greater than the requesting jurisdiction can provide.


“(10) State.—The term ‘State’ means the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the District of Columbia.

“(11) Training.—The term ‘training’ means emergency and public service event-related exercises, testing, or other activities using equipment and personnel to simulate performance of any aspect of the giving or receiving of aid by National Capital Region jurisdictions during emergencies or public service events, such actions occurring outside actual emergency or public service event periods.


“(b) Mutual Aid Authorized.—“(1) In general.—The mayor of the District of Columbia, any authorized representative of the Federal Government, the Governor of the State of Maryland, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, or the chief operating officer of a locality, or their designees, acting within his or her jurisdictional purview, may, in accordance with State law, enter into, request or provide assistance under mutual aid agreements with localities for—“(A) law enforcement, fire, rescue, emergency health and medical services, transportation, communications, public works and engineering, mass care, and resource support in an emergency or public service event;

“(B) preparing for, mitigating, managing, responding to or recovering from any emergency or public service event; and

“(C) training for any of the activities described under subparagraphs (A) and (B).


“(2) Facilitating localities.—The State of Maryland and the Commonwealth of Virginia are encouraged to facilitate the ability of localities to enter into interstate mutual aid agreements in the National Capital Region under this section.

“(3) Application and effect.—This section—“(A) does not apply to law enforcement security operations at special events of national significance under section 3056(e) of title 18, United States Code, or other law enforcement functions of the United States Secret Service;

“(B) does not diminish any authorities, express or implied, of Federal agencies to enter into mutual aid agreements in furtherance of their Federal missions; and

“(C) does not—“(i) preclude any party from entering into supplementary Mutual Aid Agreements with fewer than all the parties, or with another party; or

“(ii) affect any other agreement in effect before the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 17, 2004] among the States and localities, including the Emergency Management Assistance Compact.



“(4) Rights described.—Other than as described in this section, the rights and responsibilities of the parties to a mutual aid agreement entered into under this section shall be as described in the mutual aid agreement.


“(c) District of Columbia.—“(1) In general.—The District of Columbia may purchase liability and indemnification insurance or become self insured against claims arising under a mutual aid agreement authorized under this section.

“(2) Authorization of appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out paragraph (1).


“(d) Liability and Actions at Law.—“(1) In general.—Any responding party or its officers, employees, or agents rendering aid or failing to render aid to the District of Columbia, the Federal Government, the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, or a locality, under a mutual aid agreement authorized under this section, and any party or its officers, employees, or agents engaged in training activities with another party under such a mutual aid agreement, shall be liable on account of any act or omission of its officers, employees, or agents while so engaged or on account of the maintenance or use of any related equipment, facilities, or supplies, but only to the extent permitted under the laws and procedures of the State of the party rendering aid.

“(2) Actions.—Any action brought against a party or its officers, employees, or agents on account of an act or omission in the rendering of aid to the District of Columbia, the Federal Government, the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, or a locality, or failure to render such aid or on account of the maintenance or use of any related equipment, facilities, or supplies may be brought only under the laws and procedures of the State of the party rendering aid and only in the Federal or State courts located therein. Actions against the United States under this section may be brought only in Federal courts.

“(3) Immunities.—This section shall not abrogate any other immunities from liability that any party has under any other Federal or State law.


“(e) Workers Compensation.—“(1) Compensation.—Each party shall provide for the payment of compensation and death benefits to injured members of the emergency forces of that party and representatives of deceased members of such forces if such members sustain injuries or are killed while rendering aid to the District of Columbia, the Federal Government, the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, or a locality, under a mutual aid agreement, or engaged in training activities under a mutual aid agreement, in the same manner and on the same terms as if the injury or death were sustained within their own jurisdiction.

“(2) Other state law.—No party shall be liable under the law of any State other than its own for providing for the payment of compensation and death benefits to injured members of the emergency forces of that party and representatives of deceased members of such forces if such members sustain injuries or are killed while rendering aid to the District of Columbia, the Federal Government, the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, or a locality, under a mutual aid agreement or engaged in training activities under a mutual aid agreement.


“(f) Licenses and Permits.—If any person holds a license, certificate, or other permit issued by any responding party evidencing the meeting of qualifications for professional, mechanical, or other skills and assistance is requested by a receiving jurisdiction, such person will be deemed licensed, certified, or permitted by the receiving jurisdiction to render aid involving such skill to meet a public service event, emergency or training for any such events.”




Pilot Program To Study Design and Construction of Buildings To Minimize Effects of Nuclear ExplosionsPub. L. 96–342, title VII, § 704, Sept. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 1090, required the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to establish a pilot program of designing and constructing buildings able to withstand nuclear explosions and to submit a report to Congress on the establishment of the pilot program no later than Apr. 1, 1981.


