“SEC. 204. CONVEYANCE TO ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL.“(a) In General.—Prior to conveyance of title to U.S. Reservation 13 to the District of Columbia under this Act [see Pub. L. 109–396, title I, § 101, Dec. 15, 2006, 120 Stat. 2711], the District of Columbia shall convey, with the approval of the Architect of the Capitol and subject to subsections (b) and (c), not more than 12 acres of real property to the Architect of the Capitol.

“(b) Title Held by Secretary.—If title to the real property identified for conveyance under subsection (a) is held by the Secretary, not later than 30 days after being notified by the Architect of the Capitol that property has been so identified, the Secretary shall agree or disagree to conveying the interest in such property to the Architect of the Capitol.

“(c) Review.—If the Secretary agrees to the conveyance under subsection (b), or if title to the property is held by the District of Columbia, the real property shall be conveyed after a 30-day review period beginning on the date on which notice of the conveyance is received by the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Rules of the Senate and the Committee on Government Reform and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.

“(d) Study.—The Architect of the Capitol shall not construct a mail screening facility on any real property conveyed under this section unless each of the following conditions is satisfied:“(1) A study is completed that analyzes—“(A) whether one or more other underutilized, surplus, or excess Federal facilities exist in which such a mail screening facility could be more economically located; and

“(B) whether it would be more efficient and economical for the House of Representatives and Senate to share one mail screening facility.


“(2) The study is submitted to the relevant committees of Congress.

“(3) No fewer than 30 days have lapsed since the date of the submission under paragraph (2).


