§ 10406. Formula grants to States(a) Formula grants to StatesThe Secretary shall award grants to States in order to assist in supporting the establishment, maintenance, and expansion of programs and projects—(1) to prevent incidents of family violence, domestic violence, and dating violence;

(2) to provide immediate shelter, supportive services, and access to community-based programs for victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, and their dependents; and

(3) to provide specialized services for children exposed to family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, underserved populations, and victims who are members of racial and ethnic minority populations.


(b) Administrative expenses(1) Administrative costsEach State may use not more than 5 percent of the grant funds for State administrative costs.


(2) Subgrants to eligible entitiesThe State shall use the remainder of the grant funds to make subgrants to eligible entities for approved purposes as described in section 10408 of this title.



(c) Grant conditions(1) Approved activitiesIn carrying out the activities under this chapter, grantees and subgrantees may collaborate with and provide information to Federal, State, local, and tribal public officials and agencies, in accordance with limitations on disclosure of confidential or private information as described in paragraph (5), to develop and implement policies to reduce or eliminate family violence, domestic violence, and dating violence.


(2) Discrimination prohibited(A) Application of civil rights provisionsFor the purpose of applying the prohibitions against discrimination on the basis of age under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), on the basis of disability under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), on the basis of sex under title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.), or on the basis of race, color, or national origin under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.), programs and activities funded in whole or in part with funds made available under this chapter are considered to be programs and activities receiving Federal financial assistance.


(B) Prohibition on discrimination on basis of sex, religion(i) In generalNo person shall on the ground of sex or religion be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under, any program or activity funded in whole or in part with funds made available under this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall require any such program or activity to include any individual in any program or activity without taking into consideration that individual’s sex in those certain instances where sex is a bona fide occupational qualification or programmatic factor reasonably necessary to the normal or safe operation of that particular program or activity.


(ii) EnforcementThe Secretary shall enforce the provisions of clause (i) in accordance with section 602 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d–1). Section 603 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 2000d–2) shall apply with respect to any action taken by the Secretary to enforce such clause.


(iii) ConstructionThis subparagraph shall not be construed as affecting any legal remedy provided under any other provision of law.



(C) Enforcement authorities of SecretaryWhenever the Secretary finds that a State, Indian tribe, or other entity that has received financial assistance under this chapter has failed to comply with a provision of law referred to in subparagraph (A), with subparagraph (B), or with an applicable regulation (including one prescribed to carry out subparagraph (B)), the Secretary shall notify the chief executive officer of the State involved or the tribally designated official of the tribe involved and shall request such officer or official to secure compliance. If, within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 60 days, the chief executive officer or official fails or refuses to secure compliance, the Secretary may—(i) refer the matter to the Attorney General with a recommendation that an appropriate civil action be instituted;

(ii) exercise the powers and functions provided by title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.), the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), sections 504 and 505 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 [29 U.S.C. 794, 794a], or title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.), as may be applicable; or

(iii) take such other action as may be provided by law.


(D) Enforcement authority of Attorney GeneralWhen a matter is referred to the Attorney General pursuant to subparagraph (C)(i), or whenever the Attorney General has reason to believe that a State, an Indian tribe, or an entity described in subparagraph (C) is engaged in a pattern or practice in violation of a provision of law referred to in subparagraph (A) or in violation of subparagraph (B), the Attorney General may bring a civil action in any appropriate district court of the United States for such relief as may be appropriate, including injunctive relief.



(3) Income eligibility standardsNo income eligibility standard may be imposed upon individuals with respect to eligibility for assistance or services supported with funds appropriated to carry out this chapter. No fees may be levied for assistance or services provided with funds appropriated to carry out this chapter.


(4) MatchNo grant shall be made under this section to any entity other than a State or an Indian tribe unless the entity agrees that, with respect to the costs to be incurred by the entity in carrying out the program or project for which the grant is awarded, the entity will make available (directly or through donations from public or private entities) non-Federal contributions in an amount that is not less than $1 for every $5 of Federal funds provided under the grant. The non-Federal contributions required under this paragraph may be in cash or in kind.


(5) Nondisclosure of confidential or private information(A) In generalIn order to ensure the safety of adult, youth, and child victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence, and their families, grantees and subgrantees under this chapter shall protect the confidentiality and privacy of such victims and their families.


(B) NondisclosureSubject to subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E), grantees and subgrantees shall not—(i) disclose any personally identifying information collected in connection with services requested (including services utilized or denied), through grantees’ and subgrantees’ programs; or

(ii) reveal personally identifying information without informed, written, reasonably time-limited consent by the person about whom information is sought, whether for this program or any other Federal or State grant program, which consent—(I) shall be given by—(aa) the person, except as provided in item (bb) or (cc);

(bb) in the case of an unemancipated minor, the minor and the minor’s parent or guardian; or

(cc) in the case of an individual with a guardian, the individual’s guardian; and


(II) may not be given by the abuser or suspected abuser of the minor or individual with a guardian, or the abuser or suspected abuser of the other parent of the minor.



(C) ReleaseIf release of information described in subparagraph (B) is compelled by statutory or court mandate—(i) grantees and subgrantees shall make reasonable attempts to provide notice to victims affected by the release of the information; and

(ii) grantees and subgrantees shall take steps necessary to protect the privacy and safety of the persons affected by the release of the information.


(D) Information sharingGrantees and subgrantees may share—(i) nonpersonally identifying information, in the aggregate, regarding services to their clients and demographic nonpersonally identifying information in order to comply with Federal, State, or tribal reporting, evaluation, or data collection requirements;

(ii) court-generated information and law enforcement-generated information contained in secure, governmental registries for protective order enforcement purposes; and

(iii) law enforcement- and prosecution-generated information necessary for law enforcement and prosecution purposes.


(E) OversightNothing in this paragraph shall prevent the Secretary from disclosing grant activities authorized in this chapter to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and exercising congressional oversight authority. In making all such disclosures, the Secretary shall protect the confidentiality of individuals and omit personally identifying information, including location information about individuals and shelters.


(F) Statutorily permitted reports of abuse or neglectNothing in this paragraph shall prohibit a grantee or subgrantee from reporting abuse and neglect, as those terms are defined by law, where mandated or expressly permitted by the State or Indian tribe involved.


(G) PreemptionNothing in this paragraph shall be construed to supersede any provision of any Federal, State, tribal, or local law that provides greater protection than this paragraph for victims of family violence, domestic violence, or dating violence.


(H) Confidentiality of locationThe address or location of any shelter facility assisted under this chapter that otherwise maintains a confidential location shall, except with written authorization of the person or persons responsible for the operation of such shelter, not be made public.



(6) Supplement not supplantFederal funds made available to a State or Indian tribe under this chapter shall be used to supplement and not supplant other Federal, State, tribal, and local public funds expended to provide services and activities that promote the objectives of this chapter.



(d) Reports and evaluationEach grantee shall submit an annual performance report to the Secretary at such time as shall be reasonably required by the Secretary. Such performance report shall describe the grantee and subgrantee activities that have been carried out with grant funds made available under subsection (a) or section 10409 of this title, contain an evaluation of the effectiveness of such activities, and provide such additional information as the Secretary may reasonably require.


(Pub. L. 98–457, title III, § 306, as added Pub. L. 111–320, title II, § 201, Dec. 20, 2010, 124 Stat. 3489.)


References in TextThe Age Discrimination Act of 1975, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(A), (C)(ii), is title III of Pub. L. 94–135, Nov. 28, 1975, 89 Stat. 728, which is classified generally to chapter 76 (§ 6101 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6101 of this title and Tables.
The Education Amendments of 1972, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(A), (C)(ii), is Pub. L. 92–318, June 23, 1972, 86 Stat. 235. Title IX of the Act, known as the Patsy Takemoto Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act, is classified principally to chapter 38 (§ 1681 et seq.) of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of title IX to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1681 of Title 20 and Tables.
The Civil Rights Act of 1964, referred to in subsec. (c)(2)(A), (C)(ii), is Pub. L. 88–352, July 2, 1964, 78 Stat. 241. Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is classified generally to subchapter V (§ 2000d et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2000a of this title and Tables.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 10406, Pub. L. 98–457, title III, § 307, Oct. 9, 1984, 98 Stat. 1761, related to prohibition of discrimination, prior to the general amendment of this chapter by Pub. L. 111–320. See subsec. (c)(2) of this section.
A prior section 306 of Pub. L. 98–457 was classified to section 10405 of this title prior to the general amendment of this chapter by Pub. L. 111–320.


Change of Name
Committee on Education and Labor of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Education and the Workforce of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.


