§ 390g–2. Phase II of groundwater recharge demonstration program(a) Design, construction, and operation of projectsDuring phase II, and subject to State water laws and interstate water compacts, the Bureau is authorized and directed to design, construct, and operate demonstration projects in the High Plains States and other Reclamation Act States to recharge groundwater systems as recommended in the report referred to in subsection (c) of this section.


(b) Alternative means of cost allocation; economic feasibility of projectsDuring phase II the Secretary, acting through the Bureau, shall contract with the various High Plains States and other Reclamation Act States to conduct a study to identify and evaluate alternative means by which the costs of groundwater recharge projects could be allocated among the beneficiaries of the projects within the respective States and identify and evaluate the economic feasibility of and the legal authority for utilizing groundwater recharge in water resource development projects.


(c) Reports to Congress(1) Within twelve months after the initiation of phase II, and at annual intervals thereafter, the Secretary shall submit interim reports to Congress. Each report shall contain a detailed statement of his findings and progress respecting the design, construction, and operation of the demonstration projects referred to in subsection (a) of this section and the study referred to in subsection (b) of this section.

(2) Within five years after the initiation of phase II, the Secretary shall submit a summary report to Congress. The summary report shall contain—(A) a detailed evaluation of the demonstration projects referred to in subsection (a) of this section;

(B) the results of the studies referred to in subsection (b) of this section;

(C) specific recommendations regarding the location, scope, and feasibility of operational groundwater recharge projects to be constructed and maintained by the Bureau; and

(D) an evaluation of the feasibility of integrating these groundwater recharge projects into existing reclamation projects.


(3) In addition to recommendations made under section 390g–1 of this title, the Secretary shall make additional recommendations for design, construction, and operation of demonstration projects. Such projects are authorized to be designed, constructed, and operated in accordance with subsection (a) of this section.

(4) Each project under this section shall terminate five years after the date on which construction on the project is completed.

(5) At the conclusion of phase II the Secretary shall submit a final report to the Congress which shall include, but not be limited to, a detailed evaluation of the projects under this section.


(Pub. L. 98–434, § 4, Sept. 28, 1984, 98 Stat. 1676; Pub. L. 102–575, title XXVI, § 2601(1), (2), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4689.)

Amendments1992—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 102–575 substituted “summary report” for “final report” in two places in introductory provisions of par. (2) and added pars. (3) to (5).


