§ 12907. AIDS short-term supported housing and services(a) Use of grantsAny amounts received from grants under this section may only be used to carry out a program to provide (or contract to provide) assistance to eligible persons who are homeless or in need of housing assistance to prevent homelessness, which may include the following activities:(1) Short-term supported housingPurchasing, leasing, renovating, repairing, and converting facilities to provide short-term shelter and services.


(2) Short-term housing payments assistanceProviding rent assistance payments for short-term supported housing and rent, mortgage, and utilities payments to prevent homelessness of the tenant or mortgagor of a dwelling.


(3) Supportive servicesProviding supportive services, to eligible persons assisted under paragraphs (1) and (2), including health, mental health, assessment, permanent housing placement, drug and alcohol abuse treatment and counseling, day care, and nutritional services (except that health services under this paragraph may only be provided to individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases), and providing technical assistance to eligible persons to provide assistance in gaining access to benefits and services for homeless individuals provided by the Federal Government and State and local governments.


(4) OperationProviding for the operation of short-term supported housing provided under this section, including the costs of security, operation insurance, utilities, furnishings, equipment, supplies, and other incidental costs.


(5) AdministrationProviding staff to carry out the program under this section (subject to the provisions of section 12905(g) of this title).



(b) Program requirements(1) Minimum use period for structures(A) In generalAny building or structure assisted with amounts from a grant under this section shall be maintained as a facility to provide short-term supported housing or assistance for eligible persons—(i) in the case of assistance involving substantial rehabilitation or acquisition of the building, for a period of not less than 10 years; and

(ii) in the case of assistance under paragraph (1), (3), or (4) of subsection (a) of this section, for a period of not less than 3 years.


(B) WaiverThe Secretary may waive the requirement under subparagraph (A) with respect to any building or structure if the organization or agency that received the grant under which the building was assisted demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, that—(i) the structure is no longer needed to provide short-term supported housing or assistance or the continued operation of the structure for such purposes is no longer feasible; and

(ii) the structure will be used to benefit individuals or families whose incomes do not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by the Secretary, with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that the Secretary may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the median income for the area if the Secretary finds that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes.



(2) Residency and location limitations on short-term supported housing(A) ResidencyA short-term supported housing facility assisted with amounts from a grant under this section may not provide shelter or housing at any single time for more than 50 families or individuals.


(B) WaiverThe Secretary may, as the Secretary determines appropriate, waive the limitation under subparagraph (A) for any program or short-term supported housing facility.



(3) Term of assistance(A) Supported housing assistanceA program assisted under this section may not provide residence in a short-term housing facility assisted under this section to any individual for a sum of more than 60 days during any 6-month period.


(B) Housing payments assistanceA program assisted under this section may not provide assistance for rent, mortgage, or utilities payments to any individual for rent, mortgage, or utilities costs accruing over a period of more than 21 weeks of any 52-week period.


(C) WaiverNotwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the Secretary may waive the applicability of the requirements under such subparagraphs with respect to any individual for which the project sponsor has made a good faith effort to acquire permanent housing (in accordance with paragraph (4)) and has been unable to do so.



(4) PlacementA program assisted under this section shall provide for any individual who has remained in short-term supported housing assisted under the demonstration program, to the maximum extent practicable, the opportunity for placement in permanent housing or an environment appropriate to the health and social needs of the individual.


(5) Presumption for independent livingIn providing assistance under this section in any case in which the residence of an individual is appropriate to the needs of the individual, a program assisted under this section shall, when reasonable, provide for assistance in a manner appropriate to maintain the individual in such residence.


(6) Case management servicesA program assisted under this section shall provide each individual assisted under the program with an opportunity, if eligible, to receive case management services available from the appropriate social service agencies.



(Pub. L. 101–625, title VIII, § 858, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4379; Pub. L. 102–550, title VI, § 606(g), (j)(5), (11)(C), Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 3809–3811.)

Amendments1992—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(j)(11)(C)(i), substituted “eligible persons” for “individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(g)(1)(A), (j)(5), substituted “to eligible persons assisted under” for “to individuals assisted under” and inserted before period at end “(except that health services under this paragraph may only be provided to individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases), and providing technical assistance to eligible persons to provide assistance in gaining access to benefits and services for homeless individuals provided by the Federal Government and State and local governments”.
Subsec. (a)(4), (5). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(g)(1)(B), (C), added pars. (4) and (5) and struck out former pars. (4) and (5) which read as follows:
“(4) Maintenance and administration.—Providing for maintenance, administration, security, operation, insurance, utilities, furnishings, equipment, supplies, and other incidental costs relating to any short-term supported housing provided under the demonstration program under this section.
“(5) Technical assistance.—Providing technical assistance to such individuals to provide assistance in gaining access to benefits and services for homeless individuals provided by the Federal Government and State and local governments.”
Subsec. (b)(1)(A). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(j)(11)(C)(ii), substituted “eligible persons” for “individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases” in introductory provisions.
Subsec. (b)(2)(B). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(g)(2)(A)(i), (iii), redesignated subpar. (C) as (B) and struck out former subpar. (B) which read as follows: “Location.—A facility for short-term supported housing assisted with amounts from a grant under this section may not be located in or contiguous to any other facility for emergency or short-term housing that is not limited to use by individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or related diseases.”
Subsec. (b)(2)(C). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(g)(2)(A)(ii), (iii), substituted “limitation under subparagraph (A)” for “limitations under subparagraphs (A) and (B)” and redesignated subpar. (C) as (B).
Subsec. (b)(3)(C). Pub. L. 102–550, § 606(g)(2)(B), added subpar. (C).


