§ 1437bbb–7. Accountability(a) Maintenance of recordsEach participating jurisdiction shall maintain such records as the Secretary may require to—(1) document the amounts received by the jurisdiction under this chapter and the disposition of such amounts under the demonstration program under this subchapter;

(2) ensure compliance by the jurisdiction with this subchapter; and

(3) evaluate the performance of the jurisdiction under the demonstration program under this subchapter.


(b) ReportsEach participating jurisdiction shall annually submit to the Secretary a report in a form and at a time specified by the Secretary, which shall include—(1) documentation of the use of amounts made available to the jurisdiction under this subchapter;

(2) any information as the Secretary may request to assist the Secretary in evaluating the demonstration program under this subchapter; and

(3) a description and analysis of the effect of assisted activities in addressing the objectives of the demonstration program under this subchapter.


(c) Access to documents by Secretary and Comptroller GeneralThe Secretary and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any duly authorized representative of the Secretary or the Comptroller General, shall have access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, documents, papers, and records maintained by a participating jurisdiction that relate to the demonstration program under this subchapter.


(d) Performance review and evaluation(1) Performance reviewBased on the performance standards established under section 1437bbb–5(b)(4) of this title, the Secretary shall monitor the performance of participating jurisdictions in providing assistance under this subchapter.


(2) Status reportNot later than 60 days after the conclusion of the second year of the demonstration program under this subchapter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress an interim report on the status of the demonstration program and the progress each participating jurisdiction in achieving the purposes of the demonstration program under section 1437bbb of this title.



(Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 896, title IV, § 408, as added Pub. L. 105–276, title V, § 561, Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2623.)
