“Sec. 10. [National defense withdrawals; jurisdiction.] (a) The President of the United States is hereby authorized to establish, by Executive order or proclamation, one or more special national defense withdrawals within the exterior boundaries of Alaska, which withdrawal or withdrawals may thereafter be terminated in whole or in part by the President.

“(b) Special national defense withdrawals established under subsection (a) of this section shall be confined to those portions of Alaska that are situated to the north or west of the following line: Beginning at the point where the Porcupine River crosses the international boundary between Alaska and Canada; thence along a line parallel to, and five miles from, the right bank of the main channel of the Porcupine River to its confluence with the Yukon River; thence along a line parallel to, and five miles from, the right bank of the main channel of the Yukon River to its most southerly point of intersection with the meridian of longitude 160 degrees west of Greenwich; thence south to the intersection of said meridian with the Kuskokwim River; thence along a line parallel to, and five miles from the right bank of the Kuskokwim River to the mouth of said river; thence along the shoreline of Kuskokwim Bay to its intersection with the meridian of longitude 162 degrees 30 minutes west of Greenwich; thence south to the intersection of said meridian with the parallel of latitude 57 degrees 30 minutes north; thence east to the intersection of said parallel with the meridian of longitude 156 degrees west of Greenwich; thence south to the intersection of said meridian with the parallel of latitude 50 degrees north.

“(c) Effective upon the issuance of such Executive order or proclamation, exclusive jurisdiction over all special national defense withdrawals established under this section is hereby reserved to the United States, which shall have sole legislative, judicial, and executive power within such withdrawals, except as provided hereinafter. The exclusive jurisdiction so established shall extend to all lands within the exterior boundaries of each such withdrawal, and shall remain in effect with respect to any particular tract or parcel of land only so long as such tract or parcel remains within the exterior boundaries of such a withdrawal. The laws of the State of Alaska shall not apply to areas within any special national defense withdrawal established under this section while such areas remain subject to the exclusive jurisdiction hereby authorized: Provided, however, That such exclusive jurisdiction shall not prevent the execution of any process, civil or criminal, of the State of Alaska, upon any person found within said withdrawals: And provided further, That such exclusive jurisdiction shall not prohibit the State of Alaska from enacting and enforcing all laws necessary to establish voting districts, and the qualification and procedures for voting in all elections.

“(d) During the continuance in effect of any special national defense withdrawal established under this section, or until the Congress otherwise provides, such exclusive jurisdiction shall be exercised within each such withdrawal in accordance with the following provisions of law:“(1) All laws enacted by the Congress that are of general application to areas under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, those provisions of title 18, United States Code, that are applicable within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States as defined in section 7 of said title, shall apply to all areas within such withdrawals.

“(2) In addition, any areas within the withdrawals that are reserved by Act of Congress or by Executive action for a particular military or civilian use of the United States shall be subject to all laws enacted by the Congress that have application to lands withdrawn for that particular use, and any other areas within the withdrawals shall be subject to all laws enacted by the Congress that are of general application to lands withdrawn for defense purposes of the United States.

“(3) To the extent consistent with the laws described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection and with regulations made or other actions taken under their authority, all laws in force within such withdrawals immediately prior to the creation thereof by Executive order or proclamation shall apply within the withdrawals and, for this purpose, are adopted as laws of the United States: Provided, however, That the laws of the State or Territory relating to the organization or powers of municipalities or local political subdivisions, and the laws or ordinances of such municipalities or political subdivisions shall not be adopted as laws of the United States.

“(4) All functions vested in the United States magistrate judges by the laws described in this subsection shall continue to be performed within the withdrawals by such magistrate judges.

“(5) All functions vested in any municipal corporation, school district, or other local political subdivision by the laws described in this subsection shall continue to be performed within the withdrawals by such corporation, district, or other subdivision, and the laws of the State or the laws or ordinances of such municipalities or local political subdivision shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any withdrawal made under this section.

“(6) All other functions vested in the government of Alaska or in any officer or agency thereof, except judicial functions over which the United States District Court for the District of Alaska is given jurisdiction by this Act or other provisions of law, shall be performed within the withdrawals by such civilian individuals or civilian agencies and in such manner as the President shall from time to time, by Executive order, direct or authorize.

“(7) The United States District Court for the District of Alaska shall have original jurisdiction, without regard to the sum or value of any matter in controversy, over all civil actions arising within such withdrawals under the laws made applicable thereto by this subsection, as well as over all offenses committed within the withdrawals.


“(e) Nothing contained in subsection (d) of this section shall be construed as limiting the exclusive jurisdiction established in the United States by subsection (c) of this section or the authority of the Congress to implement such exclusive jurisdiction by appropriate legislation, or as denying to persons now or hereafter residing within any portion of the areas described in subsection (b) of this section the right to vote at all elections held within the political subdivisions as prescribed by the State of Alaska where they respectively reside, or as limiting the jurisdiction conferred on the United States District Court for the District of Alaska by any other provision of law, or as continuing in effect laws relating to the Legislature of the Territory of Alaska. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as limiting any authority otherwise vested in the Congress or the President. (As amended Pub. L. 90–578, title IV, § 402(b)(2), Oct. 17, 1968, 82 Stat. 1118; Pub. L. 101–650, title III, § 321, Dec. 1, 1990, 104 Stat. 5117.)

