§ 2331. Classification of property(a) Property within each communityImmediately upon passage of this chapter, or, in the case of Los Alamos, upon its inclusion within this chapter, the Commission shall classify all real property (including such improvements and such fixtures, equipment and other personal property incident thereto as it may deem appropriate) within each community in accordance with such classifications as shall insure reasonably similar treatment for reasonably similar property. The classification shall be made by such procedures, consistent with this subchapter, as it shall determine.


(b) Property at or in vicinity of each communityThe Commission may, but shall not be required to, classify any other real property at or in the vicinity of the community, whether within or outside of that community.


(c) Residential structures within each communityPrior to the date any residential property is first offered for sale at Los Alamos, the Commission shall further classify each residential structure within the community of Los Alamos either as a single family house, a duplex house, an apartment house, a dormitory, or as a residential structure containing two or more separate single family units and shall post, at the offices of the Commission at Los Alamos, a list, available for public inspection at reasonable times, showing the classification of each such residential structure. For the purposes of this chapter, each such residential structure will thereafter be deemed to be a single family house, a duplex house, an apartment house, a dormitory, or a residential structure containing two or more separate single family units in accordance with its classification. In determining the classification of each such residential structure containing two or more single family units, the Commission shall consider (1) the practicability of selling separately the single family units, and (2) the insurability of mortgages under section 1715n(a) of title 12.


(Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 543, ch. 4, § 41, 69 Stat. 475; Pub. L. 87–719, §§ 7, 8, Sept. 28, 1962, 76 Stat. 664.)

Amendments1962—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 87–719, § 7, inserted “, or, in the case of Los Alamos, upon its inclusion within this chapter” after “chapter”.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 87–719, § 8, added subsec. (c).


Transfer of Functions
Atomic Energy Commission abolished and functions transferred by sections 5814 and 5841 of this title. See also Transfer of Functions notes set out under those sections.


