§ 237a. Health and Human Services Office on Women’s Health(a) Establishment of OfficeThere is established within the Office of the Secretary, an Office on Women’s Health (referred to in this section as the “Office”). The Office shall be headed by a Deputy Assistant Secretary for Women’s Health who may report to the Secretary.


(b) DutiesThe Secretary, acting through the Office, with respect to the health concerns of women, shall—(1) establish short-range and long-range goals and objectives within the Department of Health and Human Services and, as relevant and appropriate, coordinate with other appropriate offices on activities within the Department that relate to disease prevention, health promotion, service delivery, research, and public and health care professional education, for issues of particular concern to women throughout their lifespan; 11 So in original. Probably should be “lifespans;”.

(2) provide expert advice and consultation to the Secretary concerning scientific, legal, ethical, and policy issues relating to women’s health;

(3) monitor the Department of Health and Human Services’ offices, agencies, and regional activities regarding women’s health and identify needs regarding the coordination of activities, including intramural and extramural multidisciplinary activities;

(4) establish a Department of Health and Human Services Coordinating Committee on Women’s Health, which shall be chaired by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Women’s Health and composed of senior level representatives from each of the agencies and offices of the Department of Health and Human Services;

(5) establish a National Women’s Health Information Center to—(A) facilitate the exchange of information regarding matters relating to health information, health promotion, preventive health services, research advances, and education in the appropriate use of health care;

(B) facilitate access to such information;

(C) assist in the analysis of issues and problems relating to the matters described in this paragraph; and

(D) provide technical assistance with respect to the exchange of information (including facilitating the development of materials for such technical assistance);


(6) coordinate efforts to promote women’s health programs and policies with the private sector; and

(7) through publications and any other means appropriate, provide for the exchange of information between the Office and recipients of grants, contracts, and agreements under subsection (c), and between the Office and health professionals and the general public.


(c) Grants and contracts regarding duties(1) AuthorityIn carrying out subsection (b), the Secretary may make grants to, and enter into cooperative agreements, contracts, and interagency agreements with, public and private entities, agencies, and organizations.


(2) Evaluation and disseminationThe Secretary shall directly or through contracts with public and private entities, agencies, and organizations, provide for evaluations of projects carried out with financial assistance provided under paragraph (1) and for the dissemination of information developed as a result of such projects.



(d) ReportsNot later than 1 year after March 23, 2010, and every second year thereafter, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report describing the activities carried out under this section during the period for which the report is being prepared.


(e) Authorization of appropriationsFor the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2014.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title II, § 229, as added Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3509(a)(1), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 531.)

ConstructionPub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3509(j), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 537, provided that: “Nothing in this section [enacting this section, sections 242s, 299b–24a, and 914 of this title and section 399b of Title 21, Food and Drugs, amending sections 287d, 290aa, 299b–25, and 299b–26 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under this section] (or the amendments made by this section) shall be construed to limit the authority of the Secretary of Health and Human Services with respect to women’s health, or with respect to activities carried out through the Department of Health and Human Services on the date of enactment of this section [Mar. 23, 2010].”



Transfer of Functions
Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3509(a)(2), Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 533, provided that: 
“There are transferred to the Office on Women’s Health (established under section 229 of the Public Health Service Act [42 U.S.C. 237a], as added by this section), all functions exercised by the Office on Women’s Health of the Public Health Service prior to the date of enactment of this section [Mar. 23, 2010], including all personnel and compensation authority, all delegation and assignment authority, and all remaining appropriations. All orders, determinations, rules, regulations, permits, agreements, grants, contracts, certificates, licenses, registrations, privileges, and other administrative actions that—“(A) have been issued, made, granted, or allowed to become effective by the President, any Federal agency or official thereof, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, in the performance of functions transferred under this paragraph; and

“(B) are in effect at the time this section takes effect, or were final before the date of enactment of this section and are to become effective on or after such date,


shall continue in effect according to their terms until modified, terminated, superseded, set aside, or revoked in accordance with law by the President, the Secretary, or other authorized official, a court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law.”
