“SEC. 2502. GENERAL PROVISIONS.“(a) Definitions.—As used in this part—“(1) the term ‘bus’ means a motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed for carrying more than 10 persons;

“(2) the term ‘multipurpose passenger vehicle’ means a motor vehicle with motive power (except a trailer), designed to carry 10 persons or fewer, which is constructed either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road operation;

“(3) the term ‘passenger car’ means a motor vehicle with motive power (except a multipurpose passenger vehicle, motorcycle, or trailer), designed for carrying 10 persons or fewer;

“(4) the term ‘truck’ means a motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose equipment; and

“(5) the term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of Transportation.


“(b) Procedure.—“(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), any action taken under section 2503 shall be taken in accordance with the applicable provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 ([formerly] 15 U.S.C. 1381 et seq.).

“(2) Specific procedure.—“(A) Initiation.—To initiate an action under section 2503, the Secretary shall, not later than May 31, 1992, publish in the Federal Register an advance notice of proposed rulemaking or a notice of proposed rulemaking, except that if the Secretary is unable to publish such a notice by such date, the Secretary shall by such date publish in the Federal Register a notice that the Secretary will begin such action by a certain date which may not be later than January 31, 1993 and include in such notice the reasons for the delay. A notice of delayed action shall not be considered agency action subject to judicial review. If the Secretary publishes an advance notice of proposed rulemaking, the Secretary is not required to follow such notice with a notice of proposed rulemaking if the Secretary determines on the basis of such advanced notice and the comments received thereon that the contemplated action should not be taken under the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 ([formerly] 15 U.S.C. 1381 et seq.), including the provisions of section 103 of such Act ([formerly] 15 U.S.C. 1392), and if the Secretary publishes the reasons for such determination consistent with chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code.

“(B) Completion.—“(i) Period.—Action under paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 2503 which was begun under subparagraph (A) shall be completed within 26 months of the date of publication of an advance notice of proposed rulemaking or 18 months of the date of publication of a notice of proposed rulemaking. The Secretary may extend for any reason the period for completion of a rulemaking initiated by the issuance of a notice of proposed rulemaking for not more than 6 months if the Secretary publishes the reasons for such extension. The extension of such period shall not be considered agency action subject to judicial review.

“(ii) Action.—A rulemaking under paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 2503 shall be considered completed when the Secretary promulgates a final rule or when the Secretary decides not to promulgate a rule (which decision may include deferral of the action or reinitiation of the action). The Secretary may not decide against promulgation of a final rule because of lack of time to complete rulemaking. Any such rulemaking actions shall be published in the Federal Register, together with the reasons for such decisions, consistent with chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code, and the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 [formerly 15 U.S.C. 1381 et seq.].

“(iii) Special rule.—     “(I) Period.—Action under paragraph (5) of section 2503 which was begun under subparagraph (A) shall be completed within 24 months of the date of publication of an advance notice of proposed rulemaking or a notice of proposed rulemaking. If the Secretary determines that there is a need for delay and if the public comment period is closed, the Secretary may extend the date for completion for not more than 6 months and shall publish in the Federal Register a notice stating the reasons for the extension and setting a date certain for completion of the action. The extension of the completion date shall not be considered agency action subject to judicial review.

     “(II) Action.—A rulemaking under paragraph (5) of section 2503 shall be considered completed when the Secretary promulgates a final rule with standards on improved head injury protection.



“(C) Standard.—The Secretary may, as part of any action taken under section 2503, amend any motor vehicle safety standard or establish a new standard under the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 ([formerly] 15 U.S.C. 1381 et seq.).



