§ 290bb–42. Awards for co-locating primary and specialty care in community-based mental health settings(a) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Eligible entityThe term “eligible entity” means a qualified community mental health program defined under section 300x–2(b)(1) of this title.


(2) Special populationsThe term “special populations” means adults with mental illnesses who have co-occurring primary care conditions and chronic diseases.



(b) Program authorizedThe Secretary, acting through the Administrator 11 So in original. A comma probably should appear. shall award grants and cooperative agreements to eligible entities to establish demonstration projects for the provision of coordinated and integrated services to special populations through the co-location of primary and specialty care services in community-based mental and behavioral health settings.


(c) ApplicationTo be eligible to receive a grant or cooperative agreement under this section, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Administrator at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Administrator may require, including a description of partnerships, or other arrangements with local primary care providers, including community health centers, to provide services to special populations.


(d) Use of funds(1) In generalFor the benefit of special populations, an eligible entity shall use funds awarded under this section for—(A) the provision, by qualified primary care professionals, of on site primary care services;

(B) reasonable costs associated with medically necessary referrals to qualified specialty care professionals, other coordinators of care or, if permitted by the terms of the grant or cooperative agreement, by 22 So in original. qualified specialty care professionals on a reasonable cost basis on site at the eligible entity;

(C) information technology required to accommodate the clinical needs of primary and specialty care professionals; or

(D) facility modifications needed to bring primary and specialty care professionals on site at the eligible entity.


(2) LimitationNot to exceed 15 percent of grant or cooperative agreement funds may be used for activities described in subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph (1).



(e) EvaluationNot later than 90 days after a grant or cooperative agreement awarded under this section expires, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary the results of an evaluation to be conducted by the entity concerning the effectiveness of the activities carried out under the grant or agreement.


(f) Authorization of appropriationsThere are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2010 and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2014.


(July 1, 1944, ch.373, title V, § 520K, as added Pub. L. 111–148, title V, § 5604, Mar. 23, 2010, 124 Stat. 679.)
