§ 629m. Data standardization for improved data matching(a) Standard data elements(1) DesignationThe Secretary, in consultation with an interagency work group established by the Office of Management and Budget, and considering State perspectives, shall, by rule, designate standard data elements for any category of information required to be reported under this part.


(2) Data elements must be nonproprietary and interoperableThe standard data elements designated under paragraph (1) shall, to the extent practicable, be nonproprietary and interoperable.


(3) Other requirementsIn designating standard data elements under this subsection, the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, incorporate—(A) interoperable standards developed and maintained by an international voluntary consensus standards body, as defined by the Office of Management and Budget, such as the International Organization for Standardization;

(B) interoperable standards developed and maintained by intergovernmental partnerships, such as the National Information Exchange Model; and

(C) interoperable standards developed and maintained by Federal entities with authority over contracting and financial assistance, such as the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council.



(b) Data standards for reporting(1) DesignationThe Secretary, in consultation with an interagency work group established by the Office of Management and Budget, and considering State government perspectives, shall, by rule, designate data reporting standards to govern the reporting required under this part.


(2) RequirementsThe data reporting standards required by paragraph (1) shall, to the extent practicable—(A) incorporate a widely-accepted, non-proprietary, searchable, computer-readable format;

(B) be consistent with and implement applicable accounting principles; and

(C) be capable of being continually upgraded as necessary.


(3) Incorporation of nonproprietary standardsIn designating reporting standards under this subsection, the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, incorporate existing nonproprietary standards, such as the eXtensible Business Reporting Language.



(Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title IV, § 440, as added Pub. L. 112–34, title I, § 105(a), Sept. 30, 2011, 125 Stat. 376.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 440 of act Aug. 14, 1935, was classified to section 640 of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 100–485.

Effective DatePub. L. 112–34, title I, § 105(b), Sept. 30, 2011, 125 Stat. 377, provided that: “The amendment made by subsection (a) [enacting this section] shall take effect on October 1, 2012, and shall apply with respect to information required to be reported on or after such date.”



