“Section 161“The Governments of the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands declare that it is their policy to promote efforts to prevent or eliminate damage to the environment and biosphere and to enrich understanding of the natural resources of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. In order to carry out this policy, the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands agree to the following mutual and reciprocal undertakings:“(a) The Government of the United States:“(1) shall, for its activities controlled by the U.S. Army at Kwajalein Atoll and in the Mid-Atoll Corridor and for U.S. Army Kwajalein Atoll activities in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, continue to apply the Environmental Standards and Procedures for United States Army Kwajalein Atoll Activities in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, unless and until those Standards or Procedures are modified by mutual agreement of the Governments of the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands;

“(2) shall apply the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 83 Stat. 852, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., to its activities under the Compact, as amended, and its related agreements as if the Republic of the Marshall Islands were the United States;

“(3) in the conduct of any activity not described in section 161(a)(1) requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement under section 161(a)(2), shall comply with standards substantively similar to those required by the following laws of the United States, taking into account the particular environment of the Republic of the Marshall Islands; the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.; the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.; the Clean Water Act (Federal Water Pollution Control Act), as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.; Title I of the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (the Ocean Dumping Act), 33 U.S.C. 1411 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.; and such other environmental protection laws of the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands as may be agreed from time to time with the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands;

“(4) shall, prior to conducting any activity not described in section 161(a)(1) requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement under section 161(a)(2), develop, as agreed with the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, written environmental standards and procedures to implement the substantive provisions of the laws made applicable to U.S. Government activities in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, pursuant to section 161(a)(3).


“(b) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall continue to develop and implement standards and procedures to protect its environment. As a reciprocal obligation to the undertakings of the Government of the United States under this Article, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, taking into account its particular environment, shall continue to develop and implement standards for environmental protection substantively similar to those required of the Government of the United States by section 161(a)(3) prior to its conducting activities in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, substantively equivalent to activities conducted there by the Government of the United States and, as a further reciprocal obligation, shall enforce those standards.

“(c) Section 161(a), including any standard or procedure applicable thereunder, and section 161(b) may be modified or superseded in whole or in part by agreement of the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.

“(d) In the event that an Environmental Impact Statement is no longer required under the laws of the United States for major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, the regulatory regime established under sections 161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4) shall continue to apply to such activities of the Government of the United States until amended by mutual agreement.

“(e) The President of the United States may exempt any of the activities of the Government of the United States under this Compact, as amended, and its related agreements from any environmental standard or procedure which may be applicable under sections 161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4) if the President determines it to be in the paramount interest of the Government of the United States to do so, consistent with Title Three of this Compact, as amended, and the obligations of the Government of the United States under international law. Prior to any decision pursuant to this subsection, the views of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall be sought and considered to the extent practicable. If the President grants such an exemption, to the extent practicable, a report with his reasons for granting such exemption shall be given promptly to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.

“(f) The laws of the United States referred to in section 161(a)(3) shall apply to the activities of the Government of the United States under this Compact, as amended, and its related agreements only to the extent provided for in this section.

