“SEC. 203. AMTRAK REFORM COUNCIL.“(a) Establishment.—There is established an independent commission to be known as the Amtrak Reform Council.

“(b) Membership.—“(1) In general.—The Council shall consist of 11 members, as follows:“(A) The Secretary of Transportation.

“(B) Two individuals appointed by the President, of which—“(i) one shall be a representative of a rail labor organization; and

“(ii) one shall be a representative of rail management.


“(C) Three individuals appointed by the Majority Leader of the United States Senate.

“(D) One individual appointed by the Minority Leader of the United States Senate.

“(E) Three individuals appointed by the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives.

“(F) One individual appointed by the Minority Leader of the United States House of Representatives.


“(2) Appointment criteria.—“(A) Time for initial appointments.—Appointments under paragraph (1) shall be made within 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 2, 1997].

“(B) Expertise.—Individuals appointed under subparagraphs (C) through (F) of paragraph (1)—“(i) may not be employees of the United States;

“(ii) may not be board members or employees of Amtrak;

“(iii) may not be representatives of rail labor organizations or rail management; and

“(iv) shall have technical qualifications, professional standing, and demonstrated expertise in the field of corporate management, finance, rail or other transportation operations, labor, economics, or the law, or other areas of expertise relevant to the Council.



“(3) Term.—Members shall serve for terms of 5 years. If a vacancy occurs other than by the expiration of a term, the individual appointed to fill the vacancy shall be appointed in the same manner as, and shall serve only for the unexpired portion of the term for which, that individual’s predecessor was appointed.

“(4) Chairman.—The Council shall elect a chairman from among its membership within 15 days after the earlier of—“(A) the date on which all members of the Council have been appointed under paragraph (2)(A); or

“(B) 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.


“(5) Majority required for action.—A majority of the members of the Council present and voting is required for the Council to take action. No person shall be elected chairman of the Council who receives fewer than 5 votes.


“(c) Administrative Support.—The Secretary of Transportation shall provide such administrative support to the Council as it needs in order to carry out its duties under this section.

“(d) Travel Expenses.—Each member of the Council shall serve without pay, but shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with section[s] 5702 and 5703 of title 5, United States Code.

“(e) Meetings.—Each meeting of the Council, other than a meeting at which proprietary information is to be discussed, shall be open to the public.

“(f) Access to Information.—Amtrak shall make available to the Council all information the Council requires to carry out its duties under this section. The Council shall establish appropriate procedures to ensure against the public disclosure of any information obtained under this subsection that is a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential.

“(g) Duties.—“(1) Evaluation and recommendation.—The Council shall—“(A) evaluate Amtrak’s performance; and

“(B) make recommendations to Amtrak for achieving further cost containment and productivity improvements, and financial reforms.


“(2) Specific considerations.—In making its evaluation and recommendations under paragraph (1), the Council shall consider all relevant performance factors, including—“(A) Amtrak’s operation as a national passenger rail system which provides access to all regions of the country and ties together existing and emerging rail passenger corridors;

“(B) appropriate methods for adoption of uniform cost and accounting procedures throughout the Amtrak system, based on generally accepted accounting principles; and

“(C) management efficiencies and revenue enhancements, including savings achieved through labor and contracting negotiations.


“(3) Monitor work-rule savings.—If, after January 1, 1997, Amtrak enters into an agreement involving work-rules intended to achieve savings with an organization representing Amtrak employees, then Amtrak shall report quarterly to the Council—“(A) the savings realized as a result of the agreement; and

“(B) how the savings are allocated.



“(h) Annual Report.—Each year before the fifth anniversary of the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 2, 1997], the Council shall submit to the Congress a report that includes an assessment of—“(1) Amtrak’s progress on the resolution of productivity issues; or

“(2) the status of those productivity issues,


and makes recommendations for improvements and for any changes in law it believes to be necessary or appropriate.

“(i) Authorization of Appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated to the Council such sums as may be necessary to enable the Council to carry out its duties.“[SECS. 204, 205. Repealed. Pub. L. 110–432, div. B, title II, § 218(a)(2), Oct. 16, 2008, 122 Stat. 4930.]”


