§ 1592a. Construction of housing(a) Types, sales, preferences in purchases, and paymentConsistent with other requirements of national defense, any permanent housing constructed pursuant to the authority of this subchapter shall consist of one- to four-family dwelling structures (including row houses) so arranged that they may be offered for separate sale. All housing of permanent construction which is constructed or acquired under the authority of this subchapter shall be sold as expeditiously as possible and in the public interest taking into consideration the continuation of the need for such housing by persons engaged in national defense activities. All dwelling structures of permanent construction designed for occupancy by not more than four families (including row houses) shall be offered for sale, and preference in the purchase of any such dwelling structure shall be granted to occupants and to veterans over other prospective purchasers. As among veterans, preference in the purchase of any such dwelling structure shall be given to disabled veterans whose disability has been determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to be service-connected. All dwelling structures of permanent construction in any housing project which are designed for occupancy by more than four families (and other structures in such project which are not sold separately) shall be sold as an entity. On such sales first preference shall be given for such period not less than ninety days nor more than six months from the date of the initial offering of such project as the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may determine, to groups of veterans organized on a mutual ownership or cooperative basis (provided that any such group shall accept as a member of its organization, on the same terms, subject to the same conditions, and with the same privileges and responsibilities, required of, and extended to, other members of the group any tenant occupying a dwelling unit in such project, at any time during such period as the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall deem appropriate, starting on the date of the announcement by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development of the availability of such project). The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall provide an equitable method of selecting the purchasers when preferred purchasers (or groups of preferred purchasers) in the same preference class or containing members in the same preference class compete with each other. Sales pursuant to this section shall be for cash or credit, upon such terms as the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall determine, and at the fair value of the property as determined by the Secretary: Provided, That full payment to the Government for the property sold shall be required within a period of not exceeding twenty-five years with interest on unpaid balances at not less than 4 per centum per annum.


(b) Temporary housingWhere it is necessary to provide housing under this subchapter in locations where, in the determination of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, there appears to be no need for such housing beyond the period during which it is needed for housing persons engaged in national defense activities, the provisions of section 1591a of this title shall not be applicable and temporary housing which is of a mobile or portable character or which is otherwise constructed so as to be available for reuse at other locations or existing housing built or acquired by the United States under authority of any other law shall be provided. Any temporary housing constructed or acquired under this subchapter which the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development determines to be no longer needed for use under this subchapter shall, unless transferred to the Department of Defense pursuant to section 1592e of this title, or reported as excess to the Administrator of the General Services Administration pursuant to chapters 1 to 11 of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41, be sold as soon as practicable to the highest responsible bidder after public advertising, except that if one or more of such bidders is a veteran purchasing a dwelling unit for his own occupancy the sale of such unit shall be made to the highest responsible bidder who is a veteran so purchasing: Provided, That the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may reject any bid for less than two-thirds of the appraised value as determined by him: Provided further, That the housing may be sold at fair value (as determined by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development) to a public body for public use: And provided further, That the housing structures shall be sold for removal from the site, except that they may be sold for use on the site if the governing body of the locality has adopted a resolution approving use of such structures on the site.


(c) Preference in admission to occupancy pending ultimate dispositionWhen the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development determines that any housing provided under this subchapter is no longer required for persons engaged in national defense activities, preference in admission to occupancy thereof shall be given to veterans pending its ultimate sale or disposition in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. As among veterans, preference in admission to occupancy shall be given to disabled veterans whose disability has been determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to be service-connected.


(Sept. 1, 1951, ch. 378, title III, § 302, 65 Stat. 303; July 14, 1952, ch. 723, § 5, 66 Stat. 602; Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649, title VIII, § 806, 68 Stat. 645; Pub. L. 89–174, § 5(a), Sept. 9, 1965, 79 Stat. 669; Pub. L. 102–54, § 13(q)(7)(A), June 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 281.)

Codification
In subsec. (b), “chapters 1 to 11 of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41” substituted for “the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended” on authority of Pub. L. 107–217, § 5(c), Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1303, which Act enacted Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, and Pub. L. 111–350, § 6(c), Jan. 4, 2011, 124 Stat. 3854, which Act enacted Title 41, Public Contracts.

Amendments1991—Subsecs. (a), (c). Pub. L. 102–54 substituted “Secretary of Veterans Affairs” for “Veterans’ Administration”.
1954—Subsec. (b). Act Aug. 2, 1954, in second sentence, substituted provisions prescribing the disposition procedure, for former provisions that the housing should “be disposed of by the Administrator not later than the date, and subject to the conditions and requirements, hereafter prescribed by the Congress: Provided, That nothing in this sentence shall be construed as prohibiting the Administrator from removing any such housing by demolition or otherwise prior to the enactment of such legislation”.
1952—Subsec. (b). Act July 14, 1952, inserted “or existing housing built or acquired by the United States under authority of any other law” after “for reuse at other locations”.


Transfer of Functions
For transfer of functions to Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, see note set out under section 1581 of this title.


