“SEC. 214. ENHANCING CRISIS MANAGEMENT THROUGH ADVANCED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.“(a) Purpose.—The purpose of this section is to improve how information technology is used in coordinating and facilitating information on disaster preparedness, response, and recovery, while ensuring the availability of such information across multiple access channels.

“(b) In General.—“(1) Study on enhancement of crisis response.—Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Dec. 17, 2002], the Administrator, in consultation with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall ensure that a study is conducted on using information technology to enhance crisis preparedness, response, and consequence management of natural and manmade disasters.

“(2) Contents.—The study under this subsection shall address—“(A) a research and implementation strategy for effective use of information technology in crisis response and consequence management, including the more effective use of technologies, management of information technology research initiatives, and incorporation of research advances into the information and communications systems of—“(i) the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and

“(ii) other Federal, State, and local agencies responsible for crisis preparedness, response, and consequence management; and


“(B) opportunities for research and development on enhanced technologies into areas of potential improvement as determined during the course of the study.


“(3) Report.—Not later than 2 years after the date on which a contract is entered into under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall submit a report on the study, including findings and recommendations to—“(A) the Committee on Governmental Affairs [now Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs] of the Senate; and

“(B) the Committee on Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Government Reform] of the House of Representatives.


“(4) Interagency cooperation.—Other Federal departments and agencies with responsibility for disaster relief and emergency assistance shall fully cooperate with the Administrator in carrying out this section.

“(5) Authorization of appropriations.—There are authorized to be appropriated for research under this subsection, such sums as are necessary for fiscal year 2003.


“(c) Pilot Projects.—Based on the results of the research conducted under subsection (b), the Administrator, in consultation with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall initiate pilot projects or report to Congress on other activities that further the goal of maximizing the utility of information technology in disaster management. The Administrator shall cooperate with other relevant agencies, and, if appropriate, State, local, and tribal governments, in initiating such pilot projects.

