§ 676. Administration(a) Technical assistance to StatesThe Secretary may provide technical assistance to the States to assist them to develop the programs authorized under this part and shall periodically (1) evaluate the programs authorized under this part and part B of this subchapter and (2) collect and publish data pertaining to the incidence and characteristics of foster care and adoptions in this country.


(b) Data collection and evaluationEach State shall submit statistical reports as the Secretary may require with respect to children for whom payments are made under this part containing information with respect to such children including legal status, demographic characteristics, location, and length of any stay in foster care.


(c) Technical assistance and implementation services for tribal programs(1) AuthorityThe Secretary shall provide technical assistance and implementation services that are dedicated to improving services and permanency outcomes for Indian children and their families through the provision of assistance described in paragraph (2).


(2) Assistance provided(A) In generalThe technical assistance and implementation services shall be to—(i) provide information, advice, educational materials, and technical assistance to Indian tribes and tribal organizations with respect to the types of services, administrative functions, data collection, program management, and reporting that are required under State plans under part B and this part;

(ii) assist and provide technical assistance to—(I) Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and tribal consortia seeking to operate a program under part B or under this part through direct application to the Secretary under section 679c of this title; and

(II) Indian tribes, tribal organizations, tribal consortia, and States seeking to develop cooperative agreements to provide for payments under this part or satisfy the requirements of section 622(b)(9), 671(a)(32), or 677(b)(3)(G) of this title; and


(iii) subject to subparagraph (B), make one-time grants, to tribes, tribal organizations, or tribal consortia that are seeking to develop, and intend, not later than 24 months after receiving such a grant to submit to the Secretary a plan under section 671 of this title to implement a program under this part as authorized by section 679c of this title, that shall—(I) not exceed $300,000; and

(II) be used for the cost of developing a plan under section 671 of this title to carry out a program under section 679c of this title, including costs related to development of necessary data collection systems, a cost allocation plan, agency and tribal court procedures necessary to meet the case review system requirements under section 675(5) of this title, or any other costs attributable to meeting any other requirement necessary for approval of such a plan under this part.



(B) Grant condition(i) In generalAs a condition of being paid a grant under subparagraph (A)(iii), a tribe, tribal organization, or tribal consortium shall agree to repay the total amount of the grant awarded if the tribe, tribal organization, or tribal consortium fails to submit to the Secretary a plan under section 671 of this title to carry out a program under section 679c of this title by the end of the 24-month period described in that subparagraph.


(ii) ExceptionThe Secretary shall waive the requirement to repay a grant imposed by clause (i) if the Secretary determines that a tribe’s, tribal organization’s, or tribal consortium’s failure to submit a plan within such period was the result of circumstances beyond the control of the tribe, tribal organization, or tribal consortium.



(C) Implementation authorityThe Secretary may provide the technical assistance and implementation services described in subparagraph (A) either directly or through a grant or contract with public or private organizations knowledgeable and experienced in the field of Indian tribal affairs and child welfare.



(3) AppropriationThere is appropriated to the Secretary, out of any money in the Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2009 and each fiscal year thereafter to carry out this subsection.



(Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title IV, § 476, as added Pub. L. 96–272, title I, § 101(a)(1), June 17, 1980, 94 Stat. 511; amended Pub. L. 110–351, title III, § 302, Oct. 7, 2008, 122 Stat. 3972.)

Amendments2008—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 110–351 added subsec. (c).

Effective Date of 2008 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 110–351 effective Oct. 7, 2008, and applicable to payments under this part and part B of this subchapter for quarters beginning on or after such date, with delay permitted if State legislation is required to meet additional requirements, see section 601 of Pub. L. 110–351, set out as a note under section 671 of this title.


