§ 5661. Research and evaluation; statistical analyses; information dissemination(a) Research and evaluation(1) The Administrator may—(A) plan and identify the purposes and goals of all agreements carried out with funds provided under this subsection; and

(B) conduct research or evaluation in juvenile justice matters, for the purpose of providing research and evaluation relating to—(i) the prevention, reduction, and control of juvenile delinquency and serious crime committed by juveniles;

(ii) the link between juvenile delinquency and the incarceration of members of the families of juveniles;

(iii) successful efforts to prevent first-time minor offenders from committing subsequent involvement in serious crime;

(iv) successful efforts to prevent recidivism;

(v) the juvenile justice system;

(vi) juvenile violence;

(vii) appropriate mental health services for juveniles and youth at risk of participating in delinquent activities;

(viii) reducing the proportion of juveniles detained or confined in secure detention facilities, secure correctional facilities, jails, and lockups who are members of minority groups;

(ix) evaluating services, treatment, and aftercare placement of juveniles who were under the care of the State child protection system before their placement in the juvenile justice system;

(x) determining—(I) the frequency, seriousness, and incidence of drug use by youth in schools and communities in the States using, if appropriate, data submitted by the States pursuant to this subparagraph and subsection (b) of this section; and

(II) the frequency, degree of harm, and morbidity of violent incidents, particularly firearm-related injuries and fatalities, by youth in schools and communities in the States, including information with respect to—(aa) the relationship between victims and perpetrators;

(bb) demographic characteristics of victims and perpetrators; and

(cc) the type of weapons used in incidents, as classified in the Uniform Crime Reports of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and



(xi) other purposes consistent with the purposes of this subchapter and subchapter I of this chapter.



(2) The Administrator shall ensure that an equitable amount of funds available to carry out paragraph (1)(B) is used for research and evaluation relating to the prevention of juvenile delinquency.

(3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to permit the development of a national database of personally identifiable information on individuals involved in studies, or in data-collection efforts, carried out under paragraph (1)(B)(x).

(4) Not later than 1 year after November 2, 2002, the Administrator shall conduct a study with respect to juveniles who, prior to placement in the juvenile justice system, were under the care or custody of the State child welfare system, and to juveniles who are unable to return to their family after completing their disposition in the juvenile justice system and who remain wards of the State. Such study shall include—(A) the number of juveniles in each category;

(B) the extent to which State juvenile justice systems and child welfare systems are coordinating services and treatment for such juveniles;

(C) the Federal and local sources of funds used for placements and post-placement services;

(D) barriers faced by State in providing services to these juveniles;

(E) the types of post-placement services used;

(F) the frequency of case plans and case plan reviews; and

(G) the extent to which case plans identify and address permanency and placement barriers and treatment plans.



(b) Statistical analysesThe Administrator may—(1) plan and identify the purposes and goals of all agreements carried out with funds provided under this subsection; and

(2) undertake statistical work in juvenile justice matters, for the purpose of providing for the collection, analysis, and dissemination of statistical data and information relating to juvenile delinquency and serious crimes committed by juveniles, to the juvenile justice system, to juvenile violence, and to other purposes consistent with the purposes of this subchapter and subchapter I of this chapter.


(c) Grant authority and competitive selection processThe Administrator may make grants and enter into contracts with public or private agencies, organizations, or individuals and shall use a competitive process, established by rule by the Administrator, to carry out subsections (a) and (b) of this section.


(d) Implementation of agreementsA Federal agency that makes an agreement under subsections (a)(1)(B) and (b)(2) of this section with the Administrator may carry out such agreement directly or by making grants to or contracts with public and private agencies, institutions, and organizations.


(e) Information disseminationThe Administrator may—(1) review reports and data relating to the juvenile justice system in the United States and in foreign nations (as appropriate), collect data and information from studies and research into all aspects of juvenile delinquency (including the causes, prevention, and treatment of juvenile delinquency) and serious crimes committed by juveniles;

(2) establish and operate, directly or by contract, a clearinghouse and information center for the preparation, publication, and dissemination of information relating to juvenile delinquency, including State and local prevention and treatment programs, plans, resources, and training and technical assistance programs; and

(3) make grants and contracts with public and private agencies, institutions, and organizations, for the purpose of disseminating information to representatives and personnel of public and private agencies, including practitioners in juvenile justice, law enforcement, the courts, corrections, schools, and related services, in the establishment, implementation, and operation of projects and activities for which financial assistance is provided under this subchapter.


(Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 251, as added Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12211, Nov. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 1888.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 5661, Pub. L. 93–415, title II, § 247, formerly § 251, Sept. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 1128; renumbered § 250 and amended Pub. L. 95–115, §§ 3(a)(3)(B), 5(e)(1), (2)(B), Oct. 3, 1977, 91 Stat. 1048, 1057; Pub. L. 96–509, § 19(p), Dec. 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 2765; renumbered § 249 and amended Pub. L. 98–473, title II, § 639, Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 2120; renumbered § 247 and amended Pub. L. 100–690, title VII, § 7263(a)(2)(D), (E), Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4443, related to participation in training program and State advisory group conferences, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 107–273, div. C, title II, § 12210(1), Nov. 2, 2002, 116 Stat. 1880.

Effective DatePart effective on the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, and applicable only with respect to fiscal years beginning on or after the first day of the first fiscal year that begins after Nov. 2, 2002, see section 12223 of Pub. L. 107–273, as amended, set out as an Effective Date of 2002 Amendment note under section 5601 of this title.


