§ 2991b–2. Establishment of Administration for Native Americans(a) EstablishmentThere is established in the Department of Health and Human Services (referred to in this subchapter as the “Department”) the Administration for Native Americans (referred to in this subchapter as the “Administration”), which shall be headed by a Commissioner of the Administration for Native Americans (referred to in this subchapter as the “Commissioner”). The Administration shall be the agency responsible for carrying out the provisions of this subchapter.


(b) CommissionerThe Commissioner shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.


(c) DutiesThe Commissioner shall—(1) provide for financial assistance, loan funds, technical assistance, training, research and demonstration projects, and other activities, described in this subchapter;

(2) serve as the effective and visible advocate on behalf of Native Americans within the Department, and with other departments and agencies of the Federal Government regarding all Federal policies affecting Native Americans;

(3) with the assistance of the Intra-Departmental Council on Native American Affairs established by subsection (d)(1) of this section, coordinate activities within the Department leading to the development of policies, programs, and budgets, and their administration affecting Native Americans, and provide quarterly reports and recommendations to the Secretary;

(4) collect and disseminate information related to the social and economic conditions of Native Americans, and assist the Secretary in preparing an annual report to the Congress about such conditions;

(5) give preference to agencies described in section 2991b(a) of this title that are eligible for assistance under this subchapter, in entering into contracts for technical assistance, training, and evaluation under this subchapter; and

(6) encourage agencies that carry out projects under this subchapter, to give preference to Native Americans, in hiring and entering into contracts to carry out such projects.


(d) Intra-Departmental Council on Native American Affairs(1) There is established in the Office of the Secretary the Intra-Departmental Council on Native American Affairs. The Commissioner shall be the chairperson of such Council and shall advise the Secretary on all matters affecting Native Americans that involve the Department. The Director of the Indian Health Service shall serve as vice chairperson of the Council.

(2) The membership of the Council shall be the heads of principal operating divisions within the Department, as determined by the Secretary, and such persons in the Office of the Secretary as the Secretary may designate.

(3) In addition to the duties described in subsection (c)(3) of this section, the Council shall, within 180 days following September 30, 1992, prepare a plan, including legislative recommendations, to allow tribal governments and other organizations described in section 2991b(a) of this title to consolidate grants administered by the Department and to designate a single office to oversee and audit the grants. Such plan shall be submitted to the committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives having jurisdiction over the Administration for Native Americans.


(e) Staffing levelsThe Secretary shall assure that adequate staff and administrative support is provided to carry out the purpose of this subchapter. In determining the staffing levels of the Administration, the Secretary shall consider among other factors the unmet needs of the Native American population, the need to provide adequate oversight and technical assistance to grantees, the need to carry out the activities of the Council, the additional reporting requirements established, and the staffing levels previously maintained in support of the Administration.


(Pub. L. 88–452, title VIII, § 803B, as added Pub. L. 102–375, title VIII, § 822(3), Sept. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 1296; amended Pub. L. 103–171, § 5(4), Dec. 2, 1993, 107 Stat. 1992.)

Amendments1993—Subsec. (c)(5). Pub. L. 103–171, § 5(4)(A), substituted “agencies described in section 2991b(a) of this title that” for “individuals who”.
Subsec. (c)(6). Pub. L. 103–171, § 5(4)(B), substituted “Native Americans,” for “such individuals”.


