§ 3056l. Competitive requirements relating to grant awards(a) Program authorized(1) Initial approval of grant applicationsFrom the funds available for national grants under section 3056d(d) of this title, the Secretary shall award grants under section 3056(b) of this title to eligible applicants, through a competitive process that emphasizes meeting performance requirements, to carry out projects under this subchapter for a period of 4 years, except as provided in paragraph (2). The Secretary may not conduct a grant competition under this subchapter until the day described in section 3056k(e) of this title.


(2) Continuation of approval based on performanceIf the recipient of a grant made under paragraph (1) meets the expected levels of performance described in section 3056k(d)(2)(A) of this title for each year of such 4-year period with respect to a project, the Secretary may award a grant under section 3056(b) of this title to such recipient to continue such project beyond such 4-year period for 1 additional year without regard to such process.



(b) Eligible applicantsAn applicant shall be eligible to receive a grant under section 3056(b) of this title in accordance with subsections (a), (c), and (d).


(c) CriteriaFor purposes of subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall select the eligible applicants to receive grants based on the following:(1) The applicant’s ability to administer a project that serves the greatest number of eligible individuals, giving particular consideration to individuals with greatest economic need, individuals with greatest social need, and individuals described in subsection (a)(3)(B)(ii) or (b)(2) of section 3056p of this title.

(2) The applicant’s ability to administer a project that provides employment for eligible individuals in the communities in which such individuals reside, or in nearby communities, that will contribute to the general welfare of the communities involved.

(3) The applicant’s ability to administer a project that moves eligible individuals into unsubsidized employment.

(4) The applicant’s prior performance, if any, in meeting core measures of performance and addressing additional indicators of performance under this subchapter and the applicant’s ability to address core indicators of performance and additional indicators of performance under this subchapter and under other Federal or State programs in the case of an applicant that has not previously received a grant under this subchapter.

(5) The applicant’s ability to move individuals with multiple barriers to employment, including individuals described in subsection (a)(3)(B)(ii) or (b)(2) of section 3056p of this title, into unsubsidized employment.

(6) The applicant’s ability to coordinate activities with other organizations at the State and local level.

(7) The applicant’s plan for fiscal management of the project to be administered with funds received in accordance with this section.

(8) The applicant’s ability to administer a project that provides community service.

(9) The applicant’s ability to minimize disruption in services for participants and in community services provided.

(10) Any additional criteria that the Secretary considers to be appropriate in order to minimize disruption in services for participants.


(d) Responsibility tests(1) In generalBefore final selection of a grantee, the Secretary shall conduct a review of available records to assess the applicant’s overall responsibility to administer Federal funds.


(2) ReviewAs part of the review described in paragraph (1), the Secretary may consider any information, including the applicant’s history with regard to the management of other grants.


(3) Failure to satisfy testThe failure to satisfy a responsibility test with respect to any 1 factor that is listed in paragraph (4), excluding those listed in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of such paragraph, does not establish that the applicant is not responsible unless such failure is substantial or persists for 2 or more consecutive years.


(4) TestThe responsibility tests include review of the following factors:(A) Unsuccessful efforts by the applicant to recover debts, after 3 demand letters have been sent, that are established by final agency action, or a failure to comply with an approved repayment plan.

(B) Established fraud or criminal activity of a significant nature within the organization or agency involved.

(C) Serious administrative deficiencies identified by the Secretary, such as failure to maintain a financial management system as required by Federal rules or regulations.

(D) Willful obstruction of the audit process.

(E) Failure to provide services to participants for a current or recent grant or to meet applicable core measures of performance or address applicable indicators of performance.

(F) Failure to correct deficiencies brought to the grantee’s attention in writing as a result of monitoring activities, reviews, assessments, or other activities.

(G) Failure to return a grant closeout package or outstanding advances within 90 days of the grant expiration date or receipt of the closeout package, whichever is later, unless an extension has been requested and granted.

(H) Failure to submit required reports.

(I) Failure to properly report and dispose of Government property as instructed by the Secretary.

(J) Failure to have maintained effective cash management or cost controls resulting in excess cash on hand.

(K) Failure to ensure that a subrecipient complies with its Office of Management and Budget Circular A–133 audit requirements specified at section 667.200(b) of title 20, Code of Federal Regulations.

(L) Failure to audit a subrecipient within the required period.

(M) Final disallowed costs in excess of 5 percent of the grant or contract award if, in the judgment of the grant officer, the disallowances are egregious.

(N) Failure to establish a mechanism to resolve a subrecipient’s audit in a timely fashion.


(5) DeterminationApplicants that are determined to be not responsible shall not be selected as grantees.


(6) Disallowed costsInterest on disallowed costs shall accrue in accordance with the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, including the amendments made by that Act.



(e) Grantees serving individuals with barriers to employment(1) DefinitionIn this subsection, the term “individuals with barriers to employment” means minority individuals, Indian individuals, individuals with greatest economic need, and individuals described in subsection (a)(3)(B)(ii) or (b)(2) of section 3056p of this title.


(2) Special considerationIn areas where a substantial population of individuals with barriers to employment exists, a grantee that receives a national grant in accordance with this section shall, in selecting subgrantees, give special consideration to organizations (including former recipients of such national grants) with demonstrated expertise in serving individuals with barriers to employment.



(f) Minority-serving granteesThe Secretary may not promulgate rules or regulations affecting grantees in areas where a substantial population of minority individuals exists, that would significantly compromise the ability of the grantees to serve their targeted population of minority older individuals.


(Pub. L. 89–73, title V, § 514, as added Pub. L. 109–365, title V, § 501, Oct. 17, 2006, 120 Stat. 2584.)


References in TextThe Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, referred to in subsec. (d)(6), is section 31001 of title III of Pub. L. 104–134, Apr. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 1321–358. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1996 Amendment note set out under section 3701 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and Tables.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 3056l, Pub. L. 89–73, title V, § 514, as added Pub. L. 106–501, title V, § 501, Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2282, related to competitive requirements relating to grant awards, prior to the general amendment of this subchapter by Pub. L. 109–365.


