“Section 461“For the purpose of this Compact, as amended, only, and without prejudice to the views of the Government of the United States or the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands as to the nature and extent of the jurisdiction of either of them under international law, the following terms shall have the following meanings:“(a) ‘Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands’ means the area established in the Trusteeship Agreement consisting of the former administrative districts of Kosrae, Yap, Ponape, the Marshall Islands and Truk as described in Title One, Trust Territory Code, section 1, in force on January 1, 1979. This term does not include the area of Palau or the Northern Mariana Islands.

“(b) ‘Trusteeship Agreement’ means the agreement setting forth the terms of trusteeship for the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, approved by the Security Council of the United Nations April 2, 1947, and by the United States July 18, 1947, entered into force July 18, 1947, 61 Stat. 3301, T.I.A.S. 1665, 8 U.N.T.S. 189.

“(c) ‘The Republic of the Marshall Islands’ and ‘the Federated States of Micronesia’ are used in a geographic sense and include the land and water areas to the outer limits of the territorial sea and the air space above such areas as now or hereafter recognized by the Government of the United States.

“(d) ‘Compact’ means the Compact of Free Association Between the United States and the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands, that was approved by the United States Congress in section 201 of Public Law 99–239 (Jan. 14, 1986) and went into effect with respect to the Republic of the Marshall Islands on October 21, 1986.

“(e) ‘Compact, as amended’ means the Compact of Free Association Between the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as amended. The effective date of the Compact, as amended, shall be on a date to be determined by the President of the United States, and agreed to by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, following formal approval of the Compact, as amended, in accordance with section 411 of this Compact, as amended.

“(f) ‘Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands’ means the Government established and organized by the Constitution of the Republic of the Marshall Islands including all the political subdivisions and entities comprising that Government.

“(g) ‘Government of the Federated States of Micronesia’ means the Government established and organized by the Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia including all the political subdivisions and entities comprising that Government.

“(h) The following terms shall be defined consistent with the 1998 Edition of the Radio Regulations of the International Telecommunication Union as follows:“(1) ‘Radiocommunication’ means telecommunication by means of radio waves.

“(2) ‘Station’ means one or more transmitters or receivers or a combination of transmitters and receivers, including the accessory equipment, necessary at one location for carrying on a radiocommunication service, or the radio astronomy service.

“(3) ‘Broadcasting Service’ means a radiocommunication service in which the transmissions are intended for direct reception by the general public. This service may include sound transmissions, television transmissions or other types of transmission.

“(4) ‘Broadcasting Station’ means a station in the broadcasting service.

“(5) ‘Assignment (of a radio frequency or radio frequency channel)’ means an authorization given by an administration for a radio station to use a radio frequency or radio frequency channel under specified conditions.

“(6) ‘Telecommunication’ means any transmission, emission or reception of signs, signals, writings, images and sounds or intelligence of any nature by wire, radio, optical or other electromagnetic systems.


“(i) ‘Military Areas and Facilities’ means those areas and facilities in the Republic of the Marshall Islands reserved or acquired by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands for use by the Government of the United States, as set forth in the separate agreements referred to in section 321.

“(j) ‘Tariff Schedules of the United States’ means the Tariff Schedules of the United States as amended from time to time and as promulgated pursuant to United States law and includes the Tariff Schedules of the United States Annotated (TSUSA), as amended.

“(k) ‘Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations’ means the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, done April 18, 1961, 23 U.S.T. 3227, T.I.A.S. 7502, 500 U.N.T.S. 95. [As amended Pub. L. 110–229, title VIII, § 806(b)(2)(K), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 874.]

