“Section 152“(a) The premises of such representatives [sic] offices, and their archives wherever located, shall be inviolable. The property and assets of such representative offices shall be immune from search, requisition, attachment and any form of seizure unless such immunity is expressly waived. Official communications in transit shall be inviolable and accorded the freedom and protections accorded by recognized principles of intentional [sic] law to official communications of a diplomatic mission.

“(b) Persons designated by the sending Government may serve in the capacity of its resident representatives with the consent of the receiving Government. Such designated persons shall be immune from civil and criminal process relating to words spoken or written and all acts performed by them in their official capacity and falling within their functions as such representatives, except insofar as such immunity may be expressly waived by the sending Government. While serving in a resident representative capacity, such designated persons shall not be liable to arrest or detention pending trial, except in the case of a grave crime and pursuant to a decision by a competent judicial authority, and such persons shall enjoy immunity from seizure of personal property, immigration restrictions, and laws relating to alien registration, fingerprinting, and the registration of foreign agents.

“(c) The sending Governments and their respective assets, income and other property shall be exempt from all direct taxes, except those direct taxes representing payment for specific goods and services, and shall be exempt from all customs duties and restrictions on the import or export of articles required for the official functions and personal use of their representatives and representative offices.

“(d) Persons designated by the sending Government to serve in the capacity of its resident representatives shall enjoy the same taxation exemptions as are set forth in Article 34 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.

“(e) The privileges, exemptions and immunities accorded under this Section are not for the personal benefit of the individuals concerned but are to safeguard the independent exercise of their official functions. Without prejudice to those privileges, exemptions and immunities, it is the duty of all such persons to respect the laws and regulations of the Government to which they are assigned.

