§ 12565. Study and report(a) Study(1) In generalFrom the sums reserved under section 12681(a)(1)(B) of this title for this section, the Corporation shall enter into a contract with an entity that is not otherwise a recipient of financial assistance under this division, to conduct a 10-year longitudinal study on the impact of the activities carried out under this division.


(2) ContentsIn conducting the study, the entity shall consider the impact of service-learning activities carried out under this division on students participating in such activities, including in particular examining the degree to which the activities—(A) improved student academic achievement;

(B) improved student engagement;

(C) improved graduation rates, as defined in section 6311(b)(2)(C)(vi) of title 20 and as clarified in applicable regulations promulgated by the Department of Education; and

(D) improved the degree to which the participants in the activities engaged in subsequent national service, volunteering, or other service activities, or pursued careers in public service, in the nonprofit sector or government.


(3) AnalysisIn carrying out such study, the entity shall examine the impact of the service-learning activities on the 4 factors described in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of paragraph (2), analyzed in terms of how much time participants were engaged in service-learning activities.


(4) Best practicesThe entity shall collect information on best practices concerning using service-learning activities to improve the 4 factors.



(b) Interim reportsThe entity shall periodically submit reports to the Corporation containing the interim results of the study and the information on best practices. The Corporation shall submit such reports to the authorizing committees.


(c) Final reportThe entity shall submit a report to the Corporation containing the results of the study and the information on best practices. The Corporation shall submit such report to the authorizing committees, and shall make such report available to the public on the Corporation’s website.


(d) Consultation and disseminationOn receiving the report described in subsection (c), the Corporation shall consult with the Secretary of Education to review the results of the study, and to identify best practices concerning using service-learning activities to improve the 4 factors described in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of subsection (a)(2). The Corporation shall disseminate information on the identified best practices.


(Pub. L. 101–610, title I, § 120, as added Pub. L. 111–13, title I, § 1205, Apr. 21, 2009, 123 Stat. 1483.)

Effective DatePart effective Oct. 1, 2009, see section 6101(a) of Pub. L. 111–13, set out as an Effective Date of 2009 Amendment note under section 4950 of this title.


