“SEC. 305. POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.“(a) Information From Federal Agencies.—The Commission may secure directly from any Federal department or agency such information as it considers necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act [probably means this title]. Upon request of the Federal Cochairperson of the Commission, the head of such department or agency shall furnish such information to the Commission. Agencies must provide the Commission with the requested information in a timely manner. Agencies are not required to provide the Commission any information that is exempt from disclosure by the Freedom of Information Act [5 U.S.C. 552]. Agenices [sic] may, upon request by the Commission, make services and personnel available to the Commission to carry out the duties of the Commission. To the maximum extent practicable, the Commission shall contract for completion of necesssary [sic] work utilizing local firms and labor to minimize costs.

“(b) Postal Services.—The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the Federal Government.

“(c) Gifts.—“(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Commission, on behalf of the United States, may accept[,] use, and dispose of gifts or donations of services, property, or money for purposes of carrying out this Act [probably means this title].

“(2) Conditional.—With respect to conditional gifts—“(A)(i) the Commission, on behalf of the United States, may accept conditional gifts for purposes of carrying out this Act [probably means this title], if approved by the Federal Cochairperson; and

“(ii) the principal of and income from any such conditional gift shall be held, invested, reinvested, and used in accordance with the condition applicable to the gift; but


“(B) no gift shall be accepted that is conditioned on any expenditure not to be funded from the gift or from the income generated by the gift unless the expenditure has been approved by Act of Congress.



“(d) The Commission, acting through the Federal Cochairperson, is authorized to enter into contracts and cooperative agreements, award grants, and make payments necessary to carry out the purposes of the Commission. With respect to funds appropriated to the Commission for fiscal year 1999, the Commission, acting through the Federal Cochairperson, is authorized to enter into contracts and cooperative agreements, award grants, and make payments to implement an interim work plan for fiscal year 1999 approved by the Commission.

