§ 1931. Approval of Compact of Free Association(a) ApprovalThe Compact of Free Association set forth in title II of this joint resolution between the United States and the Government of Palau is hereby approved, and Congress hereby consents to the agreements as set forth on pages 154 through 405 of House Document 99–193 of April 9, 1986 (hereafter in this joint resolution referred to as subsidiary or related agreements), as they relate to such Government. Subject to the provisions of this joint resolution, the President is authorized to agree, in accordance with section 411 of the Compact, to an effective date for and thereafter to implement such Compact, having taken into account any procedures with respect to the United Nations for termination of the Trusteeship Agreement.


(b) Reference to CompactAny reference in this joint resolution to the “Compact” shall be treated as a reference to the Compact of Free Association set forth in title II of this joint resolution.


(c) Amendment, change, or termination of Compact and certain agreements(1) Mutual agreement by the Government of the United States as provided in the Compact which results in amendment, change, or termination of all or any part thereof shall be affected only by Act of Congress and no unilateral action by the Government of the United States provided for in the Compact, and having such result, may be effected other than by Act of Congress.

(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall apply—(A) to all actions of the Government of the United States under the Compact including, but not limited to, actions taken pursuant to sections 431, 432, 441, or 442;

(B) to any amendment, change, or termination in any agreement that may be concluded at any time between the Government of the United States and the Government of Palau regarding friendship, cooperation and mutual security concluded pursuant to sections 321 and 323 of the Compact referred to in section 462(h);

(C) to any amendment, change, or termination of the agreements concluded pursuant to Compact sections 175 and 221(a)(4), the terms of which are incorporated by reference into the Compact; and

(D) to the following subsidiary agreements, or portions thereof:(i) Article II of the agreement referred to in section 462(a) of the Compact;

(ii) Article II of the agreement referred to in section 462(b) of the Compact;

(iii) Article II and Section 7 of Article X of the agreement referred to in section 462(f) of the Compact;

(iv) the agreement referred to in section 462(g) of the Compact;

(v) Articles II, III, IV, V, VI, and VII of the agreement referred to in section 462(h) of the Compact; and

(vi) Articles VI, XV, and XVII of the agreement referred to in section 462(i) of the Compact.




(d) Effective date(1) The authority of the President to agree to an effective date for the Compact of Free Association between the United States and Palau concurrently with termination of the Trusteeship shall be carried out in accordance with this section, and the Compact shall not take effect until after—(A) The President has certified to the Congress that the Compact has been approved in accordance with Section 411(a) and (b) of the Compact, and that there exists no legal impediment to the ability of the United States to carry out fully its responsibilities and to exercise its rights under Title Three of the Compact, as set forth in this Act, and

(B) enactment of a joint resolution which has been reported by the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs and Foreign Affairs and other appropriate Committees of the House of Representatives authorizing entry into force of the Compact, and

(C) agreements have been concluded with Palau which satisfy the requirements of section 1902 of this title. For the purpose of this subsection the word “Palau” shall be substituted for “Federated States of Micronesia” whenever it appears in section 1902 of this title.


(2) Any agreement concluded with Palau pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) and any agreement which would amend, change, or terminate any subsidiary agreement or related agreement, or portion thereof, as set forth in paragraph (4) of this subsection shall be submitted to the Congress. No such agreement shall take effect until after the expiration of 30 days after the date such agreement is so submitted (excluding days on which either House of Congress is not in session).

(3) No agreement described in paragraph (2) shall take effect if a joint resolution of disapproval is enacted during the period specified in paragraph (2). For the purpose of expediting the consideration of such a joint resolution, a motion to proceed to the consideration of any such joint resolution after it has been reported by an appropriate committee shall be treated as highly privileged in the House of Representatives. Any such joint resolution shall be considered in the Senate in accordance with the provisions of section 601(b) of Public Law 94–329.

(4) The subsidiary agreement of 11 So in original. Probably should be “or”. portions thereof referred to in paragraph (2) are as follows:(A) Articles III and IV of the agreement referred to in section 462(b) of the Compact.

(B) Articles III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, and X (except for section 7 thereof) of the agreement referred to in section 462(f) of the Compact.

(C) Articles IV, V, X, XIV, XVI, and XVIII of the agreement referred to in section 462(i) of the Compact.

(D) Articles II, V, VI, VII, and VIII of the agreement referred to in section 462(h) of the Compact.

(E) The agreement referred to in section 462(j) of the Compact.


(5) No agreement between the United States and the Government of Palau which would amend, change, or terminate any subsidiary or related agreement, or portion thereof, other than those set forth in subsection (d) 22 So in original. Probably should be subsection “(c)”. of this section or paragraph (4) of this subsection, shall take effect until the President has transmitted such an agreement to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, together with an explanation of the agreement and the reasons therefor.


(Pub. L. 99–658, title I, § 101, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3673.)


References in TextThe Compact of Free Association and the Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free Association between the United States and the Government of Palau, which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99–658, set out below.
This joint resolution and this Act, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 99–658, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3672, as amended, which is classified generally to this part. Title II of the joint resolution enacted section 1934 of this title and provisions set out below. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
For Oct. 1, 1994, as the date the Compact of Free Association with Palau takes effect, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d), see Proc. No. 6726, Sept. 27, 1994, 59 F.R. 49777, set out below.
Section 601(b) of Public Law 94–329, referred to in subsec. (d)(3), is section 601(b) of Pub. L. 94–329, title VI, June 30, 1976, 90 Stat. 765, which is not classified to the Code.

Codification
Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this title.


Change of Name
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third Congress, Jan. 5, 1993.

Regulations Regarding Habitual ResidenceCommissioner of Immigration and Naturalization to issue regulations, not later than 6 months after Sept. 30, 1996, governing rights of “habitual residence” in United States under terms of the Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United States and the Government of Palau, see section 643 of Pub. L. 104–208, formerly set out as a note under section 1901 of this title.


Termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.

Recital ClausesPub. L. 99–658 which enacted this part contained several “Whereas” clauses reading as follows:
“Whereas the United States is the administering authority of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands under the terms of the Trusteeship Agreement for the former Japanese Mandated Islands entered into by the United States with the Security Council of the United Nations on April 2, 1947, and approved by the United States on July 18, 1947; and
“Whereas the United States, in accordance with the Trusteeship Agreement, the Charter of the United Nations and the objectives of the international trusteeship system, has promoted the development of the peoples of the Trust Territory toward self-government or independence as appropriate to the particular cicumstances [sic] of the Trust Territory and its peoples and the freely expressed wishes of the peoples concerned; and
“Whereas the United States, in response to the desires of the people of Palau expressed through their freely-elected representatives and by the official pronouncements and enactments of their lawfully constituted government, and in consideration of its own obligations under the Trusteeship Agreement to promote self-determination, entered into political status negotiations with representatives of the people of Palau; and
“Whereas these negotiations resulted in the ‘Compact of Free Association’ [set out below] between the United States and Palau which, together with its related agreements, was signed by the United States and by Palau on January 10, 1986; and
“Whereas the Compact of Free Association received a favorable vote of a majority of the people of Palau voting in a United Nations-observed plebiscite conducted on February 21, 1986; and
“Whereas the Supreme Court of Palau has ruled that the constitutional process of Palau for approval of the Compact of Free Association in accordance with section 411 of the Compact has not yet been completed; and
“Whereas the President of Palau has requested the United States to complete the process of United States approval of the Compact of Free Association in accordance with section 411 of the Compact through enactment of an appropriate joint resolution”.



Compact of Free AssociationPub. L. 99–658, title II, § 201, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3678, provided that: 
“Compact of Free Association is as follows:
“COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION“the government of the united states of america and the government of palau“Affirming that their Governments and the relationship between their Governments are founded upon respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, and
“Affirming the common interests of the United States of America and the people of Palau in creating close and mutually beneficial relationships through a free and voluntary association of their Governments; and
“Affirming the interest of the Government of the United States in promoting the economic advancement and self-sufficiency of the people of Palau; and
“Recognizing that their previous relationship has been based upon the International Trusteeship System of the United Nations Charter; and that pursuant to Article 76 of the Charter, the peoples of the Trust Territory have progressively developed their institutions of self-government, and that in the exercise of their sovereign right to self-determination they have, through their free-expressed [sic] wishes, adopted a Constitution appropriate to their particular circumstances; and
“Recognizing their common desire to terminate the Trusteeship and establish a new government-to-government relationship in accordance with a new political status based on the freely-expressed wishes of the people of Palau and appropriate to their particular circumstances; and
“Recognizing that the people of Palau have and retain their sovereignty and their sovereign right to self-determination and the inherent right to adopt and amend their own Constitution and form of government and that the approval of the entry of their Government into this Compact of Free Association by the people of Palau constitutes an exercise of their sovereign right to self-determination;
“NOW, THEREFORE, AGREE to enter into relationship of free association which provides a full measure of self-government for the people of Palau; and
“FURTHER AGREE that the relationships of free association derives from and is as set forth in this Compact; and that, during such relationships of free association, the respective rights and responsibilities of the Government of the United States and the Government of the freely associated state of Palau in regard to this relationship of free association derives from and is as set forth in this Compact.


“TITLE ONE“GOVERNMENT RELATIONS

“Article I“Self-government“Section 111“The people of Palau, acting through their duly elected government established under their constitution, are self-governing.

