§ 1862n–1. Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship Program(a) Scholarship program(1) In generalThe Director shall carry out a program to award grants to eligible entities to recruit and train mathematics and science teachers and to provide scholarships and stipends to individuals participating in the program. Such program shall be known as the “Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship Program”.


(2) Merit reviewGrants shall be provided under this section on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis.


(3) Use of grantsA grant provided under this section shall be used by the eligible entity—(A) to develop and implement a program to recruit and prepare undergraduate students majoring in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics at the eligible entity (and participating institutions of higher education of the consortium, if applicable) to become qualified as mathematics and science teachers, through—(i) administering scholarships in accordance with subsection (c);

(ii) offering academic courses and early clinical teaching experiences designed to prepare students participating in the program to teach in elementary schools and secondary schools, including such preparation as is necessary to meet requirements for teacher certification or licensing;

(iii) offering programs to students participating in the program, both before and after the students receive their baccalaureate degree, to enable the students to become better mathematics and science teachers, to fulfill the service requirements of this section, and to exchange ideas with others in the students’ fields; and

(iv) providing summer internships for freshman and sophomore students participating in the program; or


(B) to develop and implement a program to recruit and prepare science, technology, engineering, or mathematics professionals to become qualified as mathematics and science teachers, through—(i) administering stipends in accordance with subsection (d);

(ii) offering academic courses and clinical teaching experiences designed to prepare stipend recipients to teach in elementary schools and secondary schools served by a high need local educational agency, including such preparation as is necessary to meet requirements for teacher certification or licensing; and

(iii) offering programs to stipend recipients, both during and after matriculation in the program for which the stipend is received, to enable recipients to become better mathematics and science teachers, to fulfill the service requirements of this section, and to exchange ideas with others in the students’ fields.



(4) Eligibility requirement(A) In generalTo be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall ensure that specific faculty members and staff from the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics departments and specific education faculty of the eligible entity (and participating institutions of higher education of the consortium, if applicable) are designated to carry out the development and implementation of the program.


(B) Inclusion of master teachersAn eligible entity (and participating institutions of higher education of the consortium, if applicable) receiving a grant under this section may also include master teachers in the development of the pedagogical content of the program and in the supervision of students participating in the program in their clinical teaching experiences.


(C) Active participantsNo eligible entity (or participating institution of higher education of the consortium, if applicable) shall be eligible for a grant under this section unless faculty from the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics departments of the eligible entity (and participating institutions of higher education of the consortium, if applicable) are active participants in the program.



(5) AwardsIn awarding grants under this section, the Director shall ensure that the eligible entities (and participating institutions of higher education of the consortia, if applicable) represent a variety of types of institutions of higher education. In support of this goal, the Director shall broadly disseminate information about when and how to apply for grants under this section, including by conducting outreach to—(A) historically Black colleges and universities that are part B institutions, as defined in section 322(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1061(2)); and

(B) minority institutions, as defined in section 365(3) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067k(3)).


(6) Supplement not supplantGrant funds provided under this section shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, other Federal or State funds available for the type of activities supported by the grant.



(b) Selection process(1) ApplicationAn eligible entity seeking funding under this section shall submit an application to the Director at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require. The application shall include, at a minimum—(A) in the case of an applicant that is submitting an application on behalf of a consortium of institutions of higher education, a description of the participating institutions of higher education and the roles and responsibilities of each such institution;

(B) a description of the program that the applicant intends to operate, including the number of scholarships and summer internships or the size and number of stipends the applicant intends to award, the type of activities proposed for the recruitment of students to the program, and the selection process that will be used in awarding the scholarships or stipends;

(C) evidence that the applicant has the capability to administer the program in accordance with the provisions of this section, which may include a description of any existing programs at the applicant eligible entity (and participating institutions of higher education of the consortium, if applicable) that are targeted to the education of mathematics and science teachers and the number of teachers graduated annually from such programs;

(D) a description of the academic courses and clinical teaching experiences required under subparagraphs (A)(ii) and (B)(ii) of subsection (a)(3), as applicable, including—(i) a description of the undergraduate program that will enable a student to graduate within 5 years with a major in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics and to obtain teacher certification or licensing;

(ii) a description of the clinical teaching experiences proposed; and

(iii) evidence of agreements between the applicant and the schools or local educational agencies that are identified as the locations at which clinical teaching experiences will occur;


(E) a description of the programs required under subparagraphs (A)(iii) and (B)(iii) of subsection (a)(3), including activities to assist new teachers in fulfilling the teachers’ service requirements under this section;

(F) an identification of the applicant eligible entity’s science, technology, engineering, and mathematics faculty and its education faculty (and such faculty of participating institutions of higher education of the consortium, if applicable) who will carry out the development and implementation of the program as required under subsection (a)(4); and

(G) a description of the process the applicant will use to fulfill the requirements of subsection (f).


(2) Review of applicationsIn evaluating the applications submitted under paragraph (1), the Director shall consider, at a minimum—(A) the ability of the applicant (and the participating institutions of higher education of the consortium, if applicable) to effectively carry out the program;

(B) the extent to which the applicant’s science, technology, engineering, and mathematics faculty and its education faculty (and such faculty of participating institutions of higher education of the consortium, if applicable) have worked or will work collaboratively to design new or revised curricula that recognize the specialized pedagogy required to teach science, technology, engineering, and mathematics effectively in elementary schools and secondary schools;

(C) the extent to which the applicant (and the participating institutions of higher education of the consortium, if applicable) is committed to making the program a central organizational focus;

(D) the degree to which the proposed programming will enable scholarship or stipend recipients to become successful mathematics and science teachers;

(E) the number and academic qualifications of the students who will be served by the program; and

(F) the ability of the applicant (and the participating institutions of higher education of the consortium, if applicable) to recruit students who would otherwise not pursue a career in teaching in elementary schools or secondary schools and students who are individuals identified in section 1885a or 1885b of this title.



(c) Scholarship requirements(1) In generalScholarships under this section shall be available only to students who—(A) are majoring in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics; and

(B) have attained at least junior status in a baccalaureate degree program.


(2) SelectionIndividuals shall be selected to receive scholarships primarily on the basis of academic merit, with consideration given to financial need and to the goal of promoting the participation of individuals identified in section 1885a or 1885b of this title.


(3) AmountThe Director shall establish for each year the amount to be awarded for scholarships under this section for that year, which shall be not less than $10,000 per year, except that no individual shall receive for any year more than the cost of attendance at that individual’s institution. Full-time students may receive annual scholarships through the completion of a baccalaureate degree program, not to exceed a maximum of 3 years. Part-time students may receive scholarships that are prorated according to such students’ enrollment status, not to exceed 6 years of scholarship support.


(4) Service obligationIf an individual receives a scholarship under this section, such individual shall be required to complete, within 8 years after graduation from the baccalaureate degree program for which the scholarship was awarded, 2 years of service as a mathematics or science teacher for each full scholarship award received, with a maximum service requirement of 6 years. Service required under this paragraph shall be performed in a high need local educational agency.



(d) Stipends(1) In generalStipends under this section shall be available only to science, technology, engineering, or mathematics professionals who, while receiving the stipend, are enrolled in a program established under subsection (a)(3)(B).


(2) SelectionIndividuals shall be selected to receive stipends under this section primarily on the basis of academic merit and professional achievement, with consideration given to financial need and to the goal of promoting the participation of individuals identified in section 1885a or 1885b of this title.


(3) Amount and durationStipends under this section shall be not less than $10,000 per year, except that no individual shall receive for any year more than the cost of attendance at such individual’s institution. Individuals may receive a maximum of 1 year of stipend support, except that if an individual is enrolled in a part-time program, such amount shall be prorated according to the length of the program.


(4) Service obligationIf an individual receives a stipend under this section, such individual shall be required to complete, within 4 years after graduation from the program for which the stipend was awarded, 2 years of service as a mathematics or science teacher. Service required under this paragraph shall be performed in a high need local educational agency.



(e) Conditions of supportAs a condition of acceptance of a scholarship or stipend under this section, a recipient of a scholarship or stipend shall enter into an agreement with the eligible entity—(1) accepting the terms of the scholarship or stipend pursuant to subsection (c) or subsection (d);

(2) agreeing to provide the eligible entity with annual certification of employment and up-to-date contact information and to participate in surveys conducted by the eligible entity as part of an ongoing assessment program; and

(3) establishing that if the service obligation required under this section is not completed, all or a portion of the scholarship or stipend received under this section shall be repaid in accordance with subsection (g).


(f) Collection for noncompliance(1) Monitoring complianceAn eligible entity receiving a grant under this section shall, as a condition of participating in the program, enter into an agreement with the Director to monitor the compliance of scholarship or stipend recipients with their respective service requirements.


(2) Collection of repayment(A) In generalIn the event that a scholarship or stipend recipient is required to repay the scholarship or stipend under subsection (g), the eligible entity shall—(i) be responsible for determining the repayment amounts and for notifying the recipient and the Director of the amount owed; and

(ii) collect such repayment amount within a period of time as determined under the agreement described in paragraph (1), or the repayment amount shall be treated as a loan in accordance with subparagraph (C).


(B) Returned to TreasuryExcept as provided in subparagraph (C), any such repayment shall be returned to the Treasury of the United States.


(C) Retain percentageAn eligible entity may retain a percentage of any repayment the eligible entity collects to defray administrative costs associated with the collection. The Director shall establish a single, fixed percentage that will apply to all eligible entities.




(g) Failure to complete service obligation(1) General ruleIf an individual who has received a scholarship or stipend under this section—(A) fails to maintain an acceptable level of academic standing in the educational institution in which the individual is enrolled, as determined by the Director;

(B) is dismissed from such educational institution for disciplinary reasons;

(C) withdraws from the program for which the award was made before the completion of such program;

(D) declares that the individual does not intend to fulfill the service obligation under this section; or

(E) fails to fulfill the service obligation of the individual under this section,


such individual shall be liable to the United States as provided in paragraph (2).

(2) Amount of repayment(A) Less than one year of serviceIf a circumstance described in paragraph (1) occurs before the completion of 1 year of a service obligation under this section, the total amount of awards received by the individual under this section shall be repaid or such amount shall be treated as a loan to be repaid in accordance with subparagraph (C).


(B) More than one year of serviceIf a circumstance described in subparagraph (D) or (E) of paragraph (1) occurs after the completion of 1 year of a service obligation under this section—(i) for a scholarship recipient, the total amount of scholarship awards received by the individual under this section, reduced by the ratio of the number of years of service completed divided by the number of years of service required, shall be repaid or such amount shall be treated as a loan to be repaid in accordance with subparagraph (C); and

(ii) for a stipend recipient, one-half of the total amount of stipends received by the individual under this section shall be repaid or such amount shall be treated as a loan to be repaid in accordance with subparagraph (C).


(C) RepaymentsThe loans described under subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall be payable to the Federal Government, consistent with the provisions of part B or D of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq., 1087a et seq.], and shall be subject to repayment in accordance with terms and conditions specified by the Director (in consultation with the Secretary of Education) in regulations promulgated to carry out this paragraph.



(3) ExceptionsThe Director may provide for the partial or total waiver or suspension of any service or payment obligation by an individual under this section whenever compliance by the individual with the obligation is impossible or would involve extreme hardship to the individual, or if enforcement of such obligation with respect to the individual would be unconscionable.



(h) Data collectionAn eligible entity receiving a grant under this section shall supply to the Director any relevant statistical and demographic data on scholarship and stipend recipients the Director may request, including information on employment required under this section.


(i) DefinitionsIn this section—(1) the term “cost of attendance” has the meaning given such term in section 472 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087ll);

(2) the term “eligible entity” means—(A) an institution of higher education; or

(B) an institution of higher education that receives grant funds on behalf of a consortium of institutions of higher education;


(3) the term “fellowship” means an award to an individual under section 1862n–1a of this title;

(4) the term “high need local educational agency” has the meaning given such term in section 201 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1021);

(5) the term “mathematics and science teacher” means a science, technology, engineering, or mathematics teacher at the elementary school or secondary school level;

(6) the term “scholarship” means an award under subsection (c);

(7) the term “science, technology, engineering, or mathematics professional” means a person who holds a baccalaureate, master’s, or doctoral degree in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics, and is working in or had a career in such field or a related area; and

(8) the term “stipend” means an award under subsection (d).


(j) Mathematics and science scholarship gift fundIn accordance with section 1870(f) of this title, the Director is authorized to accept donations from the private sector to supplement but not supplant scholarships, stipends, internships, or fellowships associated with programs under this section or section 1862n–1a of this title.


(k) Assessment of teacher service and retentionNot later than 4 years after August 9, 2007, the Director shall transmit to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Science and Technology of the House of Representatives a report on the effectiveness of the programs carried out under this section and section 1862n–1a of this title. The report shall include the proportion of individuals receiving scholarships, stipends, or fellowships under the program who—(1) fulfill the individuals’ service obligation required under this section or section 1862n–1a of this title;

(2) remain in the teaching profession beyond the individuals’ service obligation; and

(3) remain in the teaching profession in a high need local educational agency beyond the individuals’ service obligation.


(l) EvaluationNot less than 2 years after August 9, 2007, the Director, in consultation with the Secretary of Education, shall conduct an evaluation to determine whether the scholarships, stipends, and fellowships authorized under this section and section 1862n–1a of this title have been effective in increasing the numbers of high-quality mathematics and science teachers teaching in high need local educational agencies and whether there continue to exist significant shortages of such teachers in high need local educational agencies.


(Pub. L. 107–368, § 10, Dec. 19, 2002, 116 Stat. 3049; Pub. L. 110–69, title VII, § 7030, Aug. 9, 2007, 121 Stat. 698.)


References in TextThe Higher Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (g)(2)(C), is Pub. L. 89–329, Nov. 8, 1965, 79 Stat. 1219. Parts B and D of title IV of the Act are classified to parts B (§ 1071 et seq.) and C (§ 1087a et seq.), respectively, of subchapter IV of chapter 28 of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1001 of Title 20 and Tables.

Codification
Section 7030 of Pub. L. 110–69, which directed that “Section 10 of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. 1862n–1) is amended to read as follows:” and then set out the text of sections 10 and 10A, was executed by generally amending section 10 and adding a new section 10A (42 U.S.C. 1862n–1a) after section 10, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Section was enacted as part of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2002, and not as part of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 which comprises this chapter.

Amendments2007—Pub. L. 110–69 amended section generally, substituting provisions relating to the Robert Noyce Teacher Scholarship Program, consisting of subsecs. (a) to (l), for former provisions relating to the Robert Noyce Scholarship Program, consisting of subsecs. (a) to (i). See Codification note above.


Change of Name
Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.


Definitions
For definitions of terms used in this section, see section 4 of Pub. L. 107–368, set out as a note under section 1862n of this title.


