§ 16354. External technical review of departmental programs(a) National energy research and development advisory boards(1) EstablishmentThe Secretary shall establish one or more advisory boards to review research, development, demonstration, and commercial application programs of the Department in energy efficiency, renewable energy, nuclear energy, and fossil energy.


(2) AlternativesThe Secretary may—(A) designate an existing advisory board within the Department to fulfill the responsibilities of an advisory board under this section; and

(B) enter into appropriate arrangements with the National Academy of Sciences to establish such an advisory board.



(b) Use of existing committeesThe Secretary shall continue to use the scientific program advisory committees chartered under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) by the Office of Science to oversee research and development programs under that Office.


(c) MembershipEach advisory board under this section shall consist of persons with appropriate expertise representing a diverse range of interests.


(d) Meetings and goals(1) MeetingsEach advisory board under this section shall meet at least semiannually to review and advise on the progress made by the respective one or more research, development, demonstration, and commercial application programs.


(2) GoalsThe advisory board shall review the measurable cost and performance-based goals for the programs as established under section 16181 of this title, and the progress on meeting the goals.



(e) Periodic reviews and assessments(1) In generalThe Secretary shall enter into appropriate arrangements with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct periodic reviews and assessments of—(A) the research, development, demonstration, and commercial application programs authorized by this Act and amendments made by this Act;

(B) the measurable cost and performance-based goals for the programs as established under section 16181 of this title, if any; and

(C) the progress on meeting the goals.


(2) TimingThe reviews and assessments shall be conducted every 5 years or more often as the Secretary considers necessary.


(3) ReportsThe Secretary shall submit to Congress reports describing the results of all the reviews and assessments.



(Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 990, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 912.)


References in TextThe Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (b), is Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, as amended, which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
This Act, referred to in subsec. (e)(1)(A), is Pub. L. 109–58, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 594, as amended, known as the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which enacted this chapter and enacted, amended, and repealed numerous other sections and notes in the Code. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 15801 of this title and Tables.


