“SEC. 306. COMMISSION PERSONNEL MATTERS.“(a) Compensation of Members.—Each member of the Commission who is not an officer or employee of the Federal Government shall be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time) during the time such member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Commission. The Federal Cochairperson shall be compensated at the annual rate prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code. All members of the Commission who are officers or employees of the United States shall serve without compensation that is in addition to that received for their services as officers or employees of the United States.

“(b) Travel Expenses.—The members of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for the Commission.

“(c) Staff.—“(1) In general.—The Federal Cochairperson of the Commission may, without regard to the civil service laws and regulations, appoint such personnel as may be necessary to enable the Commission to perform its duties.

“(2) Compensation.—The Federal Cochairperson of the Commission may fix the compensation of personnel without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating to classification of positions and General Schedule pay rates.


“(d) Detail of Government Employees.—Any Federal Government employee may be detailed to the Commission without reimbursement, and such detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.

“(e) Procurement of Temporary and Intermittent Services.—The Federal Cochairperson of the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals which do not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title.

“(f) Offices.—The principal office of the Commission shall be located in Alaska, at a location that the Commission shall select.

“(g) Administrative Expenses and Records.—The Commission is hereby prohibited from using more than 5 percent of the amounts appropriated under the authority of this Act [probably means this title] or transferred pursuant to section 329 of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (section 101(g) of division A of this Act) [43 U.S.C. 1653 note] for administrative expenses. The Commission and its grantees shall maintain accurate and complete records which shall be available for audit and examination by the Comptroller General or his or her designee.

“(h) Inspector General.—[Amended section 8G of the Inspector General Act, 5 U.S.C. App.]

