§ 300x–55. Failure to comply with agreements(a) Suspension or termination of paymentsSubject to subsection (e) of this section, if the Secretary determines that a State has materially failed to comply with the agreements or other conditions required for the receipt of a grant under the program involved, the Secretary may in whole or in part suspend payments under the grant, terminate the grant for cause, or employ such other remedies (including the remedies provided for in subsections (b) and (c) of this section) as may be legally available and appropriate in the circumstances involved.


(b) Repayment of payments(1) In generalSubject to subsection (e) of this section, the Secretary may require a State to repay with interest any payments received by the State under section 300x or 300x–21 of this title that the Secretary determines were not expended by the State in accordance with the agreements required under the program involved.


(2) Offset against paymentsIf a State fails to make a repayment required in paragraph (1), the Secretary may offset the amount of the repayment against the amount of any payment due to be paid to the State under the program involved.



(c) Withholding of payments(1) In generalSubject to subsections (e) and (g)(3) of this section, the Secretary may withhold payments due under section 300x or 300x–21 of this title if the Secretary determines that the State involved is not expending amounts received under the program involved in accordance with the agreements required under the program.


(2) Termination of withholdingThe Secretary shall cease withholding payments from a State under paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that there are reasonable assurances that the State will expend amounts received under the program involved in accordance with the agreements required under the program.



(d) Applicability of remedies to certain violations(1) In generalWith respect to agreements or other conditions for receiving a grant under the program involved, in the case of the failure of a State to maintain material compliance with a condition referred to in paragraph (2), the provisions for noncompliance with the condition that are provided in the section establishing the condition shall apply in lieu of subsections (a) through (c) of this section.


(2) Relevant conditionsFor purposes of paragraph (1):(A) In the case of the program established in section 300x of this title, a condition referred to in this paragraph is the condition established in section 300x–1(d) of this title and the condition established in section 300x–4(b) of this title.

(B) In the case of the program established in section 300x–21 of this title, a condition referred to in this paragraph is the condition established in section 300x–26 of this title and the condition established in section 300x–30 of this title.



(e) Opportunity for hearingBefore taking action against a State under any of subsections (a) through (c) of this section (or under a section referred to in subsection (d)(2) of this section, as the case may be), the Secretary shall provide to the State involved adequate notice and an opportunity for a hearing.


(f) Requirement of hearing in certain circumstances(1) In generalIf the Secretary receives a complaint that a State has failed to maintain material compliance with the agreements or other conditions required for receiving a grant under the program involved (including any condition referred to for purposes of subsection (d) of this section), and there appears to be reasonable evidence to support the complaint, the Secretary shall promptly conduct a hearing with respect to the complaint.


(2) Finding of material noncomplianceIf in a hearing under paragraph (1) the Secretary finds that the State involved has failed to maintain material compliance with the agreement or other condition involved, the Secretary shall take such action under this section as may be appropriate to ensure that material compliance is so maintained, or such action as may be required in a section referred to in subsection (d)(2) of this section, as the case may be.



(g) Certain investigations(1) Requirement regarding SecretaryThe Secretary shall in fiscal year 1994 and each subsequent fiscal year conduct in not less than 10 States investigations of the expenditure of grants received by the States under section 300x or 300x–21 of this title in order to evaluate compliance with the agreements required under the program involved.


(2) Provision of records, etc., upon requestEach State receiving a grant under section 300x or 300x–21 of this title, and each entity receiving funds from the grant, shall make appropriate books, documents, papers, and records available to the Secretary or the Comptroller General, or any of their duly authorized representatives, for examination, copying, or mechanical reproduction on or off the premises of the appropriate entity upon a reasonable request therefor.


(3) Limitations on authorityThe Secretary may not institute proceedings under subsection (c) of this section unless the Secretary has conducted an investigation concerning whether the State has expended payments under the program involved in accordance with the agreements required under the program. Any such investigation shall be conducted within the State by qualified investigators.



(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XIX, § 1945, as added Pub. L. 102–321, title II, § 203(a), July 10, 1992, 106 Stat. 405.)
