§ 2996b. Legal Services Corporation(a) Establishment; purposeThere is established in the District of Columbia a private nonmembership nonprofit corporation, which shall be known as the Legal Services Corporation, for the purpose of providing financial support for legal assistance in noncriminal proceedings or matters to persons financially unable to afford legal assistance.


(b) Principal office; agent for service of processThe Corporation shall maintain its principal office in the District of Columbia and shall maintain therein a designated agent to accept service of process for the Corporation. Notice to or service upon the agent shall be deemed notice to or service upon the Corporation.


(c) Status of Corporation under tax lawsThe Corporation, and any legal assistance program assisted by the Corporation, shall be eligible to be treated as an organization described in section 170(c)(2)(B) of title 26 and as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of title 26 which is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of title 26. If such treatments are conferred in accordance with the provisions of title 26, the Corporation, and legal assistance programs assisted by the Corporation, shall be subject to all provisions of title 26 relevant to the conduct of organizations exempt from taxation.


(Pub. L. 88–452, title X, § 1003, as added Pub. L. 93–355, § 2, July 25, 1974, 88 Stat. 379; amended Pub. L. 99–514, § 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095.)

Amendments1986—Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 99–514 substituted “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” for “Internal Revenue Code of 1954” wherever appearing, which for purposes of codification was translated as “title 26” thus requiring no change in text.

Transition to Legal Services Corporation ProgramPub. L. 93–355, § 3(a)–(d)(1), (e), July 25, 1974, 88 Stat. 389, 390, provided that:
“(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective ninety days after the date of the first meeting of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation established under the Legal Services Corporation Act (title X of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, as added by this Act) [this subchapter], the Legal Services Corporation shall succeed to all rights of the Federal Government to capital equipment in the possession of legal services programs or activities assisted pursuant to section 222(a)(3), 230, 232 [sections 2809(a)(3), 2823, and 2825 of this title], or any other provision of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 [this chapter].

“(b) Within ninety days after the first meeting of the Board, all assets, liabilities, obligations, property, and records as determined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity [now the Director of the Office of Community Services] or the head of any successor authority, to be employed directly or held or used primarily, in connection with any function of the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity or the head of any successor authority in carrying out legal services activities under the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 [this chapter], shall be transferred to the Corporation. Personnel transferred to the Corporation from the Office of Economic Opportunity or any successor authority shall be transferred in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and shall not be reduced in compensation for one year after such transfer, except for cause. The Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity or the head of any successor authority shall take whatever action is necessary and reasonable to seek suitable employment for personnel who do not transfer to the Corporation.

“(c) Collective-bargaining agreements in effect on the date of enactment of this Act [July 25, 1974], covering employees transferred to the Corporation shall continue to be recognized by the Corporation until the termination date of such agreements, or until mutually modified by the parties.

“(d)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity [now the Director of the Office of Community Services] or the head of any successor authority shall take such action as may be necessary, in cooperation with the president of the Legal Services Corporation, including the provision (by grant or otherwise) of financial assistance to recipients and the Corporation and the furnishing of services and facilities to the Corporation—“(A) to assist the Corporation in preparing to undertake, and in the initial undertaking of, its responsibilities under this title [this subchapter];

“(B) out of appropriations available to him, to make funds available to meet the organizational and administrative expenses of the Corporation;

“(C) within ninety days after the first meeting of the Board, to transfer to the Corporation all unexpended balances of funds appropriated for the purpose of carrying out legal services programs and activities under the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 [this chapter] or successor authority; and

“(D) to arrange for the orderly continuation by such Corporation of financial assistance to legal services programs and activities assisted pursuant to the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 [this chapter] or successor authority.


Whenever the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity or the head of any successor authority determines that an obligation to provide financial assistance pursuant to any contract or grant for such legal services will extend beyond six months after the date of enactment of this Act [July 25, 1974], he shall include, in any such contract or grant, provisions to assure that the obligation to provide such financial assistance may be assumed by the Legal Services Corporation, subject to such modifications of the terms and conditions of such contract or grant as the Corporation determines to be necessary.

“(2) [Omitted. Provided for the repeal of section 2809(a)(3) of this title.]


“(e) There are authorized to be appropriated for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1975, such sums as may be necessary for carrying out this section.”





