§ 9674. Purchasing groups(a) ExemptionExcept as provided in this section, a purchasing group is exempt from the following:(1) A State law, rule, or order which prohibits the establishment of a purchasing group.

(2) A State law, rule, or order which makes it unlawful for an insurer to provide or offer to provide insurance on a basis providing, to a purchasing group or its member, advantages, based on their loss and expense experience, not afforded to other persons with respect to rates, policy forms, coverages, or other matters.

(3) A State law, rule, or order which prohibits a purchasing group or its members from purchasing insurance on the group basis described in paragraph (2) of this subsection.

(4) A State law, rule, or order which prohibits a purchasing group from obtaining insurance on a group basis because the group has not been in existence for a minimum period of time or because any member has not belonged to the group for a minimum period of time.

(5) A State law, rule, or order which requires that a purchasing group must have a minimum number of members, common ownership or affiliation, or a certain legal form.

(6) A State law, rule, or order which requires that a certain percentage of a purchasing group must obtain insurance on a group basis.

(7) A State law, rule, or order which requires that any insurance policy issued to a purchasing group or any members of the group be countersigned by an insurance agent or broker residing in that State.

(8) A State law, rule, or order which otherwise discriminate 11 So in original. Probably should be “discriminates”. against a purchasing group or any of its members.


(b) Application of exemptionsThe exemptions specified in subsection (a) of this section apply to the following:(1) Pollution liability insurance, and comprehensive general liability insurance which includes this coverage, provided to—(A) a purchasing group; or

(B) any person who is a member of a purchasing group.


(2) The sale of any one of the following to a purchasing group or a member of the group:(A) Pollution liability insurance and comprehensive general liability coverage.

(B) Insurance related services.

(C) Management services.



(c) Agents or brokersA State may require that a person acting, or offering to act, as an agent or broker for a purchasing group obtain a license from that State, except that a State may not impose any qualification or requirement which discriminates against a nonresident agent or broker.


(Pub. L. 96–510, title IV, § 404, as added Pub. L. 99–499, title II, § 210(a), formerly § 210, Oct. 17, 1986, 100 Stat. 1718; renumbered § 210(a), Pub. L. 99–563, § 11(c)(1), Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3177.)
