“SEC. 203. POLICY COMMITTEE; RELATED COMMITTEES.“(a) Policy Committee.—“(1) Establishment.—There is established a Policy Committee comprised of 17 members to be selected, not later than 2 years prior to the date on which the Conference convenes, as follows:“(A) Presidential appointees.—Nine members shall be selected by the President and shall include—“(i) three members who are officers or employees of the United States; and

“(ii) six members with experience in the field of aging, including providers and consumers of aging services.


“(B) House appointees.—Two members shall be selected by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, after consultation with the Committee on Education and the Workforce and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and two members shall be selected by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, after consultation with such committees.

“(C) Senate appointees.—Two members shall be selected by the Majority Leader of the Senate, after consultation with members of the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Special Committee on Aging of the Senate, and two members shall be selected by the Minority Leader of the Senate, after consultation with members of such committees.


“(2) Duties of the policy committee.—The Policy Committee shall initially meet at the call of the Secretary, but not later than 30 days after the last member is selected under subsection (a). Subsequent meetings of the Policy Committee shall be held at the call of the chairperson of the Policy Committee. Through meetings, hearings, and working sessions, the Policy Committee shall—“(A) make recommendations to the Secretary to facilitate the timely convening of the Conference;

“(B) formulate and approve a proposed agenda for the Conference not later than 90 days after the first meeting of the Policy Committee for the Secretary;

“(C) make recommendations for participants and delegates of the Conference;

“(D) establish the number of delegates to be selected under section 201(d)(2);

“(E) establish an executive committee consisting of three to five members, with a majority of such members being age 55 or older, to work with Conference staff; and

“(F) establish other committees as needed that have a majority of members who are age 55 or older.


“(3) Voting; chairperson.—“(A) Voting.—The Policy Committee shall act by the vote of a majority of the members present. A quorum of Committee members shall not be required to conduct Committee business.

“(B) Chairperson.—The President shall select the chairperson from among the members of the Policy Committee. The chairperson may vote only to break a tie vote of the other members of the Policy Committee.



“(b) Advisory and Other Committees.—“(1) In general.—The President shall establish an advisory committee to the Conference which shall include representation from the Federal Council on Aging and other public agencies and private nonprofit organizations as appropriate. The President shall consider for appointment to the advisory committee individuals recommended by the Policy Committee.

“(2) Other committees.—The Secretary may establish such other committees, including technical committees, as may be necessary to assist in the planning, conducting, and reviewing of the Conference.


“(c) Composition of Committees.—Each committee established under subsection (b) shall be composed of professionals and public members, and shall include individuals from low-income families and from minority groups. A majority of the public members of each such committee shall be 55 years of age or older, and individuals who are Native Americans.

“(d) Compensation.—Appointed members of any such committee (other than any officers or employees of the Federal Government), while attending conferences or meetings of the committee or otherwise serving at the request of the Secretary, shall be entitled to receive compensation at a rate to be fixed by the Secretary, but not to exceed the daily equivalent of the maximum rate of pay payable under section 5376 of title 5, United States Code (including travel time). While away from their homes or regular places of business, such members may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized under section 5703 of such title for persons employed intermittently in Federal Government service.

