§ 247c–1. Infertility and sexually transmitted diseases(a) In generalThe Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may make grants to States, political subdivisions of States, and other public or nonprofit private entities for the purpose of carrying out the activities described in subsection (c) of this section regarding any treatable sexually transmitted disease that can cause infertility in women if treatment is not received for the disease.


(b) Authority regarding individual diseasesWith respect to diseases described in subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary shall, in making a grant under such subsection, specify the particular disease or diseases with respect to which the grant is to be made. The Secretary may not make the grant unless the applicant involved agrees to carry out this section only with respect to the disease or diseases so specified.


(c) Authorized activitiesWith respect to any sexually transmitted disease described in subsection (a) of this section, the activities referred to in such subsection are—(1) screening women for the disease and for secondary conditions resulting from the disease, subject to compliance with criteria issued under subsection (f) of this section;

(2) providing treatment to women for the disease;

(3) providing counseling to women on the prevention and control of the disease (including, in the case of a woman with the disease, counseling on the benefits of locating and providing such counseling to any individual from whom the woman may have contracted the disease and any individual whom the woman may have exposed to the disease);

(4) providing follow-up services;

(5) referrals for necessary medical services for women screened pursuant to paragraph (1), including referrals for evaluation and treatment with respect to acquired immune deficiency syndrome and other sexually transmitted diseases;

(6) in the case of any woman receiving services pursuant to any of paragraphs (1) through (5), providing to the partner of the woman the services described in such paragraphs, as appropriate;

(7) providing outreach services to inform women of the availability of the services described in paragraphs (1) through (6);

(8) providing to the public information and education on the prevention and control of the disease, including disseminating such information; and

(9) providing training to health care providers in carrying out the screenings and counseling described in paragraphs (1) and (3).


(d) Requirement of availability of all services through each granteeThe Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) of this section only if the applicant involved agrees that each activity authorized in subsection (c) of this section will be available through the applicant. With respect to compliance with such agreement, the applicant may expend the grant to carry out any of the activities directly, and may expend the grant to enter into agreements with other public or nonprofit private entities under which the entities carry out the activities.


(e) Required providers regarding certain servicesThe Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) of this section only if the applicant involved agrees that, in expending the grant to carry out activities authorized in subsection (c) of this section, the services described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of such subsection will be provided only through entities that are State or local health departments, grantees under section 254b, 254b, 256a, or 300 of this title,11 See References in Text notes below. or are other public or nonprofit private entities that provide health services to a significant number of low-income women.


(f) Quality assurance regarding screening for diseasesFor purposes of this section, the Secretary shall establish criteria for ensuring the quality of screening procedures for diseases described in subsection (a) of this section.


(g) ConfidentialityThe Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) of this section only if the applicant involved agrees, subject to applicable law, to maintain the confidentiality of information on individuals with respect to activities carried out under subsection (c) of this section.


(h) Limitation on imposition of fees for servicesThe Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) of this section only if the applicant involved agrees that, if a charge is imposed for the provision of services or activities under the grant, such charge—(1) will be made according to a schedule of charges that is made available to the public;

(2) will be adjusted to reflect the income of the individual involved; and

(3) will not be imposed on any individual with an income of less than 150 percent of the official poverty line, as established by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and revised by the Secretary in accordance with section 9902(2) of this title.


(i) Limitations on certain expendituresThe Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) of this section only if the applicant involved agrees that not less than 80 percent of the grant will be expended for the purpose of carrying out paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (c) of this section.


(j) Reports to Secretary(1) Collection of dataThe Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) of this section only if the applicant involved agrees, with respect to any disease selected under subsection (b) of this section for the applicant, to submit to the Secretary, for each fiscal year for which the applicant receives such a grant, a report providing—(A) the incidence of the disease among the population of individuals served by the applicant;

(B) the number and demographic characteristics of individuals in such population;

(C) the types of interventions and treatments provided by the applicant, and the health conditions with respect to which referrals have been made pursuant to subsection (c)(5) of this section;

(D) an assessment of the extent to which the activities carried pursuant to subsection (a) of this section have reduced the incidence of infertility in the geographic area involved; and

(E) such other information as the Secretary may require with respect to the project carried out with the grant.


(2) Utility and comparability of dataThe Secretary shall carry out activities for the purpose of ensuring the utility and comparability of data collected pursuant to paragraph (1).



(k) Maintenance of effortWith respect to activities for which a grant under subsection (a) of this section is authorized to be expended, the Secretary may make such a grant only if the applicant involved agrees to maintain expenditures of non-Federal amounts for such activities at a level that is not less than the average level of such expenditures maintained by the applicant for the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which the applicant is applying to receive such a grant.


(l) Requirement of application(1) In generalThe Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) of this section only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary, the application contains the plan required in paragraph (2), and the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this section.


(2) Submission of plan for program of grantee(A) In generalThe Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) of this section only if the applicant involved submits to the Secretary a plan describing the manner in which the applicant will comply with the agreements required as a condition of receiving such a grant, including a specification of the entities through which activities authorized in subsection (c) of this section will be provided.


(B) Participation of certain entitiesThe Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) of this section only if the applicant provides assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the plan submitted under subparagraph (A) has been prepared in consultation with an appropriate number and variety of—(i) representatives of entities in the geographic area involved that provide services for the prevention and control of sexually transmitted diseases, including programs to provide to the public information and education regarding such diseases; and

(ii) representatives of entities in such area that provide family planning services.




(m) Duration of grantThe period during which payments are made to an entity from a grant under subsection (a) of this section may not exceed 3 years. The provision of such payments shall be subject to annual approval by the Secretary of the payments and subject to the availability of appropriations for the fiscal year involved to make the payments in such year. The preceding sentence may not be construed to establish a limitation on the number of grants under such subsection that may be made to an entity.


(n) Technical assistance, and supplies and services in lieu of grant funds(1) Technical assistanceThe Secretary may provide training and technical assistance to grantees under subsection (a) of this section with respect to the planning, development, and operation of any program or service carried out under such subsection. The Secretary may provide such technical assistance directly or through grants or contracts.


(2) Supplies, equipment, and employee detailThe Secretary, at the request of a recipient of a grant under subsection (a) of this section, may reduce the amount of such grant by—(A) the fair market value of any supplies or equipment furnished the grant recipient; and

(B) the amount of the pay, allowances, and travel expenses of any officer or employee of the Government when detailed to the grant recipient and the amount of any other costs incurred in connection with the detail of such officer or employee;


when the furnishing of such supplies or equipment or the detail of such an officer or employee is for the convenience of and at the request of such grant recipient and for the purpose of carrying out a program with respect to which the grant under subsection (a) of this section is made. The amount by which any such grant is so reduced shall be available for payment by the Secretary of the costs incurred in furnishing the supplies or equipment, or in detailing the personnel, on which the reduction of such grant is based, and such amount shall be deemed as part of the grant and shall be deemed to have been paid to the grant recipient.


(o) Evaluations and reports by Secretary(1) EvaluationsThe Secretary shall, directly or through contracts with public or private entities, provide for annual evaluations of programs carried out pursuant to subsection (a) of this section in order to determine the quality and effectiveness of the programs.


(2) Report to CongressNot later than 1 year after the date on which amounts are first appropriated pursuant to subsection (q) of this section, and biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report—(A) summarizing the information provided to the Secretary in reports made pursuant to subsection (j)(1) of this section, including information on the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases described in subsection (a) of this section; and

(B) summarizing evaluations carried out pursuant to paragraph (1) during the preceding fiscal year.



(p) Coordination of Federal programsThe Secretary shall coordinate the program carried out under this section with any similar programs administered by the Secretary (including coordination between the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Director of the National Institutes of Health).


(q) Authorization of appropriationsFor the purpose of carrying out this section, other than subsections (o) and (r) of this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1998.


(r) Separate grants for research on delivery of services(1) In generalThe Secretary may make grants for the purpose of conducting research on the manner in which the delivery of services under subsection (a) of this section may be improved. The Secretary may make such grants only to grantees under such subsection and to public and nonprofit private entities that are carrying out programs substantially similar to programs carried out under such subsection.


(2) Authorization of appropriationsFor the purpose of carrying out paragraph (1), there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1998.



(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title III, § 318A, as added Pub. L. 102–531, title III, § 304, Oct. 27, 1992, 106 Stat. 3490; amended Pub. L. 103–43, title XX, § 2008(i)(1)(B)(ii), June 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 212; Pub. L. 103–183, title IV, § 402, Dec. 14, 1993, 107 Stat. 2236; Pub. L. 107–251, title VI, § 601(a), Oct. 26, 2002, 116 Stat. 1664; Pub. L. 108–163, § 2(m)(1), Dec. 6, 2003, 117 Stat. 2023.)


References in TextThe reference to section 254b of this title the first place appearing, referred to in subsec. (e), was in the original a reference to section 329, meaning section 329 of act July 1, 1944, which was omitted in the general amendment of subpart I (§ 254b et seq.) of part D of this subchapter by Pub. L. 104–299, § 2, Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3626.
Section 256a of this title, referred to in subsec. (e), was repealed by Pub. L. 104–299, § 4(a)(3), Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3645.

Amendments2003—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 108–163 substituted “254b” for “254c, 254b(h)” before “, 256a”.
2002—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 107–251 substituted “254b(h)” for “256”.
1993—Pub. L. 103–43 made technical amendment to directory language of Pub. L. 102–531, § 304, which enacted this section.
Subsec. (o)(2). Pub. L. 103–183, § 402(a), substituted “subsection (q)” for “subsection (s)”.
Subsec. (q). Pub. L. 103–183, § 402(b)(1), substituted “through 1998” for “and 1995”.
Subsec. (r)(2). Pub. L. 103–183, § 402(b)(2), substituted “1998” for “1995”.


Change of Name
Committee on Labor and Human Resources of Senate changed to Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of Senate by Senate Resolution No. 20, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 19, 1999.
Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives treated as referring to Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives by section 1(a) of Pub. L. 104–14, set out as a note preceding section 21 of Title 2, The Congress. Committee on Commerce of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Energy and Commerce of House of Representatives, and jurisdiction over matters relating to securities and exchanges and insurance generally transferred to Committee on Financial Services of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Seventh Congress, Jan. 3, 2001.

Effective Date of 2003 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 108–163 deemed to have taken effect immediately after the enactment of Pub. L. 107–251, see section 3 of Pub. L. 108–163, set out as a note under section 233 of this title.


