“SEC. 517. RESTRUCTURING TOOLS.“(a) Mortgage Restructuring.—“(1) In this subtitle, an approved mortgage restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan shall include restructuring mortgages in accordance with this subsection to provide—“(A) a restructured or new first mortgage that is sustainable at rents at levels that are established in section 514(g); and

“(B) a second mortgage that is in an amount equal to not more than the greater of—“(i) the full or partial payment of claim made under this subtitle; or

“(ii) the difference between the restructured or new first mortgage and the indebtedness under the existing insured mortgage immediately before it is restructured or refinanced, provided that the amount of the second mortgage shall be in an amount that the Secretary or participating administrative entity determines can reasonably be expected to be repaid.



“(2) The second mortgage shall bear interest at a rate not to exceed the applicable Federal rate as defined in section 1274(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 1274(d)]. The term of the second mortgage shall be equal to the term of the restructured or new first mortgage.

“(3) Payments on the second mortgage shall be deferred when the first mortgage remains outstanding, except to the extent there is excess project income remaining after payment of all reasonable and necessary operating expenses (including deposits in a reserve for replacement), debt service on the first mortgage, and any other expenditures approved by the Secretary. At least 75 percent of any excess project income shall be applied to payments on the second mortgage, and the Secretary or the participating administrative entity may permit up to 25 percent to be paid to the project owner if the Secretary or participating administrative entity determines that the project owner meets benchmarks for management and housing quality.

“(4) The full amount of the second mortgage shall be immediately due and payable if—“(A) the first mortgage is terminated or paid in full, except as otherwise provided by the holder of the second mortgage;

“(B) the project is purchased and the second mortgage is assumed by any subsequent purchaser in violation of guidelines established by the Secretary; or

“(C) the Secretary provides notice to the project owner that such owner has failed to materially comply with any requirements of this section or the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.] as those requirements apply to the project, with a reasonable opportunity for such owner to cure such failure.


“(5) The Secretary may modify the terms of the second mortgage, assign the second mortgage to the acquiring organization or agency, or forgive all or part of the second mortgage if the Secretary holds the second mortgage and if the project is acquired by a tenant organization or tenant-endorsed community-based nonprofit or public agency, pursuant to guidelines established by the Secretary.

“(6) The second mortgage under this section may be a first mortgage if no restructured or new first mortgage will meet the requirement of paragraph (1)(A).


“(b) Restructuring Tools.—In addition to the requirements of subsection (a) and to the extent these actions are consistent with this section and with the control of the Secretary of applicable accounts in the Treasury of the United States, an approved mortgage restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan under this subtitle may include one or more of the following actions:“(1) Full or partial payment of claim.—Making a full payment of claim or partial payment of claim under section 541(b) of the National Housing Act [12 U.S.C. 1735f–19(b)], as amended by section 523(b) of this Act. Any payment under this paragraph shall not require the approval of a mortgagee.

“(2) Refinancing of debt.—Refinancing of all or part of the debt on a project. If the refinancing involves a mortgage that will continue to be insured under the National Housing Act [12 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.], the refinancing shall be documented through amendment of the existing insurance contract and not through a new insurance contract.

“(3) Mortgage insurance.—Providing FHA multifamily mortgage insurance, reinsurance or other credit enhancement alternatives, including multifamily risk-sharing mortgage programs, as provided under section 542 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 [Pub. L. 102–550, 12 U.S.C. 1707 note]. The Secretary shall use risk-shared financing under section 542(c) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 for any mortgage restructuring, rehabilitation financing, or debt refinancing included as part of a mortgage restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan if the terms and conditions are considered to be the best available financing in terms of financial savings to the FHA insurance funds and will result in reduced risk of loss to the Federal Government. Any limitations on the number of units available for mortgage insurance under section 542 shall not apply to eligible multifamily housing projects. Any credit subsidy costs of providing mortgage insurance shall be paid from the Liquidating Accounts of the General Insurance Fund or the Special Risk Insurance Fund and shall not be subject to any limitation on appropriations.

“(4) Credit enhancement.—Providing any additional State or local mortgage credit enhancements and risk-sharing arrangements that may be established with State or local housing finance agencies, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the Federal National Mortgage Association, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, to a modified or refinanced first mortgage.

“(5) Compensation of third parties.—Consistent with the portfolio restructuring agreement, entering into agreements, incurring costs, or making payments, including incentive agreements designed to reward superior performance in meeting the purposes of this Act, as may be reasonably necessary, to compensate the participation of participating administrative entities and other parties in undertaking actions authorized by this subtitle. Upon request to the Secretary, participating administrative entities that are qualified under the United States Housing Act of 1937 to serve as contract administrators shall be the contract administrators under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [12 U.S.C. 1437f] for purposes of any contracts entered into as part of an approved mortgage restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan. Subject to the availability of amounts provided in advance in appropriations Acts for administrative fees under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, such amounts may be used to compensate participating administrative entities for compliance monitoring costs incurred under section 519.

“(6) Use of project accounts.—Applying any residual receipts, replacement reserves, and any other project accounts not required for project operations, to maintain the long-term affordability and physical condition of the property or of other eligible multifamily housing projects. The participating administrative entity may expedite the acquisition of residual receipts, replacement reserves, or other such accounts, by entering into agreements with owners of housing covered by an expiring contract to provide an owner with a share of the receipts, not to exceed 10 percent, in accordance with guidelines established by the Secretary.


“(c) Rehabilitation Needs and Addition of Significant Features.—“(1) Rehabilitation needs.—“(A) In general.—Rehabilitation may be paid from the residual receipts, replacement reserves, or any other project accounts not required for project operations, or, as provided in appropriations Acts and subject to the control of the Secretary of applicable accounts in the Treasury of the United States, from budget authority provided for increases in the budget authority for assistance contracts under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, the rehabilitation grant program established under section 236 of the National Housing Act [12 U.S.C. 1715z–1], as amended by section 531 of subtitle B of this Act, or through the debt restructuring transaction. Rehabilitation under this paragraph shall only be for the purpose of restoring the project to a non-luxury standard adequate for the rental market intended at the original approval of the project-based assistance.

“(B) Contribution.—Each owner or purchaser of a project to be rehabilitated under an approved mortgage restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan shall contribute, from non-project resources, not less than 25 percent of the amount of rehabilitation assistance received, except that the participating administrative entity may provide an exception from the requirement of this subparagraph for housing cooperatives.


“(2) Addition of significant features.—“(A) Authority.—An approved mortgage restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan may require the improvement of the project by the addition of significant features that are not necessary for rehabilitation to the standard provided under paragraph (1), such as air conditioning, an elevator, and additional community space. The Secretary shall establish guidelines regarding the inclusion of requirements regarding such additional significant features under such plans.

“(B) Funding.—Significant features added pursuant to an approved mortgage restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan may be paid from the funding sources specified in the first sentence of paragraph (1)(A).

“(C) Limitation on owner contribution.—An owner of a project may not be required to contribute from non-project resources, toward the cost of any additional significant features required pursuant to this paragraph, more than 25 percent of the amount of any assistance received for the inclusion of such features.

“(D) Applicability.—This paragraph shall apply to all eligible multifamily housing projects, except projects for which the Secretary and the project owner executed a mortgage restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan on or before the date of the enactment of the Mark-to-Market Extension Act of 2001 [Jan. 10, 2002].



“(d) Prohibition on Equity Sharing by the Secretary.—The Secretary is prohibited from participating in any equity agreement or profit-sharing agreement in conjunction with any eligible multifamily housing project.

“(e) Conflict of Interest Guidelines.—The Secretary may establish guidelines to prevent conflicts of interest by a participating administrative entity that provides, directly or through risk-sharing arrangements, any form of credit enhancement or financing pursuant to subsections [sic] (b)(3) or (b)(4) or to prevent conflicts of interest by any other person or entity under this subtitle.

