“SEC. 204. FAA TASK FORCE ON AIR CARRIER SAFETY AND PILOT TRAINING.“(a) Establishment.—The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall establish a special task force to be known as the FAA Task Force on Air Carrier Safety and Pilot Training (in this section referred to as the ‘Task Force’).

“(b) Composition.—The Task Force shall consist of members appointed by the Administrator and shall include air carrier representatives, labor union representatives, and aviation safety experts with knowledge of foreign and domestic regulatory requirements for flight crewmember education and training.

“(c) Duties.—The duties of the Task Force shall include, at a minimum, evaluating best practices in the air carrier industry and providing recommendations in the following areas:“(1) Air carrier management responsibilities for flight crewmember education and support.

“(2) Flight crewmember professional standards.

“(3) Flight crewmember training standards and performance.

“(4) Mentoring and information sharing between air carriers.


“(d) Report.—Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act [Aug. 1, 2010], and before the last day of each one-year period thereafter until termination of the Task Force, the Task Force shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report detailing—“(1) the progress of the Task Force in identifying best practices in the air carrier industry;

“(2) the progress of air carriers and labor unions in implementing the best practices identified by the Task Force;

“(3) recommendations of the Task Force, if any, for legislative or regulatory actions;

“(4) the progress of air carriers and labor unions in implementing training-related, nonregulatory actions recommended by the Administrator; and

“(5) the progress of air carriers in developing specific programs to share safety data and ensure implementation of the most effective safety practices.


“(e) Termination.—The Task Force shall terminate on September 30, 2012.

“(f) Applicability of Federal Advisory Committee Act.—The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Task Force.

