“SEC. 412. ANNUAL PROGRESS REPORTS.“(a) In General.—Each qualified entity under this title shall prepare an annual report on the progress of the demonstration project. Each report shall include both program and participant information and shall specify for the period covered by the report the following information:“(1) The number and characteristics of individuals making a deposit into an individual development account.

“(2) The amounts in the Reserve Fund established with respect to the project.

“(3) The amounts deposited in the individual development accounts.

“(4) The amounts withdrawn from the individual development accounts and the purposes for which such amounts were withdrawn.

“(5) The balances remaining in the individual development accounts.

“(6) The savings account characteristics (such as threshold amounts and match rates) required to stimulate participation in the demonstration project, and how such characteristics vary among different populations or communities.

“(7) What service configurations of the qualified entity (such as configurations relating to peer support, structured planning exercises, mentoring, and case management) increased the rate and consistency of participation in the demonstration project and how such configurations varied among different populations or communities.

“(8) Such other information as the Secretary may require to evaluate the demonstration project.


“(b) Submission of Reports.—The qualified entity shall submit each report required to be prepared under subsection (a) to—“(1) the Secretary; and

“(2) the Treasurer (or equivalent official) of the State in which the project is conducted, if the State or a local government or a tribal government committed funds to the demonstration project.


“(c) Timing.—The first report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted not later than 60 days after the end of the project year in which the Secretary authorized the qualified entity to conduct the demonstration project, and subsequent reports shall be submitted every 12 months thereafter, until the conclusion of the project.

