§ 291j–3. Applications and conditions(a) Contents of applicationsFor each project for which a guarantee of a loan to a nonprofit private agency or a direct loan to a public agency is sought under this part, there shall be submitted to the Secretary, through the State agency designated in accordance with section 291d of this title, an application by such private nonprofit agency or by such public agency. If two or more private nonprofit agencies, or two or more public agencies, join in the project, the application may be filed by one or more such agencies. Such application shall (1) set forth all of the descriptions, plans, specifications, assurances, and information which are required by the third sentence of section 291e(a) of this title (other than clause (6) thereof) with respect to applications submitted under that section, (2) contain such other information as the Secretary may require to carry out the purposes of this part, and (3) include a certification by the State agency of the total cost of the project and the amount of the loan for which a guarantee is sought under this part, or the amount of the direct loan sought under this part, as the case may be.


(b) Conditions for approvalThe Secretary may approve such application only if—(1) there remains sufficient balance in the allotment determined for such State pursuant to section 291j–2 of this title to cover the amount of the loan for which a guarantee is sought, or the amount of the direct loan sought (as the case may be), in such application,

(2) he makes each of the findings which are required by clauses (1) through (4) of section 291e(b) of this title for the approval of applications for projects thereunder (except that, in the case of the finding required under such clause (4) of entitlement of a project to a priority established under section 291c(a) of this title; such finding shall be made without regard to the provisions of clauses (1) and (3) of such section),

(3) he finds that there is compliance with section 291e(e) of this title,

(4) he obtains assurances that the applicant will keep such records, and afford such access thereto, and make such reports, in such form and containing such information, as the Secretary may reasonably require, and

(5) he also determines, in the case of a loan for which a guarantee is sought, that the terms, conditions, maturity, security (if any), and schedule and amounts of repayments with respect to the loan are sufficient to protect the financial interests of the United States and are otherwise reasonable and in accord with regulations, including a determination that the rate of interest does not exceed such per centum per annum on the principal obligation outstanding as the Secretary determines to be reasonable, taking into account the range of interest rates prevailing in the private market for similar loans and the risks assumed by the United States.


(c) HearingNo application under this section shall be disapproved until the Secretary has afforded the State agency an opportunity for a hearing.


(d) Amendment of approved applicationsAmendment of an approved application shall be subject to approval in the same manner as an original application.


(e) Recovery rights; terms and conditions(1) In the case of any loan to a nonprofit private agency, the United States shall be entitled to recover from the applicant the amount of any payments made pursuant to any guarantee of such loan under this part, unless the Secretary for good cause waives its right of recovery, and, upon making any such payment, the United States shall be subrogated to all of the rights of the recipient of the payments with respect to which the guarantee was made.

(2) Guarantees of loans to nonprofit private agencies under this part shall be subject to such further terms and conditions as the Secretary determines to be necessary to assure that the purposes of this part will be achieved, and, to the extent permitted by subsection (f) of this section, any of such terms and conditions may be modified by the Secretary to the extent he determines it to be consistent with the financial interest of the United States.


(f) Incontestable guaranteeAny guarantee of a loan to a nonprofit private agency made by the Secretary pursuant to this part shall be incontestable in the hands of an applicant on whose behalf such guarantee is made, and as to any person who makes or contracts to make a loan to such applicant in reliance thereon, except for fraud or misrepresentation on the part of such applicant or such other person.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title VI, § 623, as added Pub. L. 91–296, title II, § 201, June 30, 1970, 84 Stat. 346.)
