“SEC. 206. ESTABLISHMENT OF GRANT PROCESS.“(a) Grant Requests.—Amtrak shall submit grant requests (including a schedule for the disbursement of funds), consistent with the requirements of this division [see Short Title of 2008 Amendment note set out under section 20101 of this title], to the Secretary [of Transportation] for funds authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for the use of Amtrak under sections 101(a), (b), and (c) [122 Stat. 4908], 102 [122 Stat. 4908], 219(b) [49 U.S.C. 24307 note], and 302 [enacting section 24105 of this title].

“(b) Procedures for Grant Requests.—The Secretary shall establish substantive and procedural requirements, including schedules, for grant requests under this section not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 16, 2008] and shall transmit copies of such requirements and schedules to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate. As part of those requirements, the Secretary shall require, at a minimum, that Amtrak deposit grant funds, consistent with the appropriated amounts for each area of expenditure in a given fiscal year, in the following 2 accounts:“(1) The Amtrak Operating account.

“(2) The Amtrak General Capital account.


Amtrak may not transfer such funds to another account or expend such funds for any purpose other than the purposes covered by the account in which the funds are deposited without approval by the Secretary [of Transportation].

“(c) Review and Approval.—“(1) 30-day approval process.—The Secretary shall complete the review of a grant request (including the disbursement schedule) and approve or disapprove the request within 30 days after the date on which Amtrak submits the grant request. If the Secretary disapproves the request or determines that the request is incomplete or deficient, the Secretary shall include the reason for disapproval or the incomplete items or deficiencies in a notice to Amtrak.

“(2) 15-day modification period.—Within 15 days after receiving notification from the Secretary under the preceding sentence, Amtrak shall submit a modified request for the Secretary’s review.

“(3) Revised requests.—Within 15 days after receiving a modified request from Amtrak, the Secretary shall either approve the modified request, or, if the Secretary finds that the request is still incomplete or deficient, the Secretary shall identify in writing to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate the remaining deficiencies and recommend a process for resolving the outstanding portions of the request.


