§ 14043g. Sexual assault services program(a) PurposesThe purposes of this section are—(1) to assist States, Indian tribes, and territories in providing intervention, advocacy, accompaniment, support services, and related assistance for—(A) adult, youth, and child victims of sexual assault;

(B) family and household members of such victims; and

(C) those collaterally affected by the victimization, except for the perpetrator of such victimization; and


(2) to provide for technical assistance and training relating to sexual assault to—(A) Federal, State, tribal, territorial and local governments, law enforcement agencies, and courts;

(B) professionals working in legal, social service, and health care settings;

(C) nonprofit organizations;

(D) faith-based organizations; and

(E) other individuals and organizations seeking such assistance.



(b) Grants to States and territories(1) Grants authorizedThe Attorney General shall award grants to States and territories to support the establishment, maintenance, and expansion of rape crisis centers and other nongovernmental or tribal programs and projects to assist individuals who have been victimized by sexual assault, without regard to the age of the individual.


(2) Allocation and use of funds(A) Administrative costsNot more than 5 percent of the grant funds received by a State or territory governmental agency under this subsection for any fiscal year may be used for administrative costs.


(B) Grant fundsAny funds received by a State or territory under this subsection that are not used for administrative costs shall be used to provide grants to rape crisis centers and other nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations or tribal programs and activities for programs and activities within such State or territory that provide direct intervention and related assistance.


(C) Intervention and related assistanceIntervention and related assistance under subparagraph (B) may include—(i) 24-hour hotline services providing crisis intervention services and referral;

(ii) accompaniment and advocacy through medical, criminal justice, and social support systems, including medical facilities, police, and court proceedings;

(iii) crisis intervention, short-term individual and group support services, and comprehensive service coordination and supervision to assist sexual assault victims and family or household members;

(iv) information and referral to assist the sexual assault victim and family or household members;

(v) community-based, culturally specific services and support mechanisms, including outreach activities for underserved communities; and

(vi) the development and distribution of materials on issues related to the services described in clauses (i) through (v).



(3) Application(A) In generalEach eligible entity desiring a grant under this subsection shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time and in such manner as the Attorney General may reasonably require.


(B) ContentsEach application submitted under subparagraph (A) shall—(i) set forth procedures designed to ensure meaningful involvement of the State or territorial sexual assault coalition and representatives from underserved communities in the development of the application and the implementation of the plans;

(ii) set forth procedures designed to ensure an equitable distribution of grants and grant funds within the State or territory and between urban and rural areas within such State or territory;

(iii) identify the State or territorial agency that is responsible for the administration of programs and activities; and

(iv) meet other such requirements as the Attorney General reasonably determines are necessary to carry out the purposes and provisions of this section.



(4) Minimum amountThe Attorney General shall allocate to each State (including the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico) not less than 1.50 percent of the total amount appropriated in a fiscal year for grants under this section, except that the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall each be allocated 0.25 percent of the total appropriations. The remaining funds shall be allotted to each State and each territory in an amount that bears the same ratio to such remaining funds as the population of such State and such territory bears to the population of all the States and the territories.



(c) Grants for culturally specific programs addressing sexual assault(1) Grants authorizedThe Attorney General shall award grants to eligible entities to support the establishment, maintenance, and expansion of culturally specific intervention and related assistance for victims of sexual assault.


(2) Eligible entitiesTo be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall—(A) be a private nonprofit organization that focuses primarily on culturally specific communities;

(B) must have documented organizational experience in the area of sexual assault intervention or have entered into a partnership with an organization having such expertise;

(C) have expertise in the development of community-based, linguistically and culturally specific outreach and intervention services relevant for the specific communities to whom assistance would be provided or have the capacity to link to existing services in the community tailored to the needs of culturally specific populations; and

(D) have an advisory board or steering committee and staffing which is reflective of the targeted culturally specific community.


(3) Award basisThe Attorney General shall award grants under this section on a competitive basis.


(4) Distribution(A) The Attorney General shall not use more than 2.5 percent of funds appropriated under this subsection in any year for administration, monitoring, and evaluation of grants made available under this subsection.

(B) Up to 5 percent of funds appropriated under this subsection in any year shall be available for technical assistance by a national, nonprofit, nongovernmental organization or organizations whose primary focus and expertise is in addressing sexual assault within underserved culturally specific populations.


(5) TermThe Attorney General shall make grants under this section for a period of no less than 2 fiscal years.


(6) ReportingEach entity receiving a grant under this subsection shall submit a report to the Attorney General that describes the activities carried out with such grant funds.



(d) Grants to State, territorial, and tribal sexual assault coalitions(1) Grants authorized(A) In generalThe Attorney General shall award grants to State, territorial, and tribal sexual assault coalitions to assist in supporting the establishment, maintenance, and expansion of such coalitions.


(B) Minimum amountNot less than 10 percent of the total amount appropriated to carry out this section shall be used for grants under subparagraph (A).


(C) Eligible applicantsEach of the State, territorial, and tribal sexual assault coalitions.



(2) Use of fundsGrant funds received under this subsection may be used to—(A) work with local sexual assault programs and other providers of direct services to encourage appropriate responses to sexual assault within the State, territory, or tribe;

(B) work with judicial and law enforcement agencies to encourage appropriate responses to sexual assault cases;

(C) work with courts, child protective services agencies, and children’s advocates to develop appropriate responses to child custody and visitation issues when sexual assault has been determined to be a factor;

(D) design and conduct public education campaigns;

(E) plan and monitor the distribution of grants and grant funds to their State, territory, or tribe; or

(F) collaborate with and inform Federal, State, or local public officials and agencies to develop and implement policies to reduce or eliminate sexual assault.


(3) Allocation and use of fundsFrom amounts appropriated for grants under this subsection for each fiscal year—(A) not less than 10 percent of the funds shall be available for grants to tribal sexual assault coalitions; and

(B) the remaining funds shall be available for grants to State and territorial coalitions, and the Attorney General shall allocate an amount equal to 1⁄56 of the amounts so appropriated to each of those State and territorial coalitions.


(4) ApplicationEach eligible entity desiring a grant under this subsection shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Attorney General determines to be essential to carry out the purposes of this section.


(5) First-time applicantsNo entity shall be prohibited from submitting an application under this subsection during any fiscal year for which funds are available under this subsection because such entity has not previously applied or received funding under this subsection.



(e) Grants to tribes(1) Grants authorizedThe Attorney General may award grants to Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and nonprofit tribal organizations for the operation of sexual assault programs or projects in Indian tribal lands and Alaska Native villages to support the establishment, maintenance, and expansion of programs and projects to assist those victimized by sexual assault.


(2) Allocation and use of funds(A) Administrative costsNot more than 5 percent of the grant funds received by an Indian tribe, tribal organization, and nonprofit tribal organization under this subsection for any fiscal year may be used for administrative costs.


(B) Grant fundsAny funds received under this subsection that are not used for administrative costs shall be used to provide grants to tribal organizations and nonprofit tribal organizations for programs and activities within Indian country and Alaskan native villages that provide direct intervention and related assistance.




(f) Authorization of appropriations(1) In generalThere are authorized to be appropriated $40,000,000 to remain available until expended for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018 to carry out the provisions of this section.


(2) AllocationsOf the total amounts appropriated for each fiscal year to carry out this section—(A) not more than 2.5 percent shall be used by the Attorney General for evaluation, monitoring, and other administrative costs under this section;

(B) not more than 2.5 percent shall be used for the provision of technical assistance to grantees and subgrantees under this section;

(C) not less than 65 percent shall be used for grants to States and territories under subsection (b);

(D) not less than 10 percent shall be used for making grants to State, territorial, and tribal sexual assault coalitions under subsection (d);

(E) not less than 10 percent shall be used for grants to tribes under subsection (e); and

(F) not less than 10 percent shall be used for grants for culturally specific programs addressing sexual assault under subsection (c).



(Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 41601, as added Pub. L. 109–271, § 3(b), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 754; amended Pub. L. 113–4, title II, § 201, Mar. 7, 2013, 127 Stat. 80.)

Amendments2013—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 113–4, § 201(a)(1), substituted “other nongovernmental or tribal programs and projects to assist individuals who have been victimized by sexual assault, without regard to the age of the individual.” for “other programs and projects to assist those victimized by sexual assault.”
Subsec. (b)(2)(B). Pub. L. 113–4, § 201(a)(2)(A), inserted “or tribal programs and activities” after “nongovernmental organizations”.
Subsec. (b)(2)(C)(v). Pub. L. 113–4, § 201(a)(2)(B), struck out “linguistically and” before “culturally”.
Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 113–4, § 201(a)(3)(B), which directed striking out “the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,” after “Guam”, was executed by striking out such phrase after “Guam,” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Pub. L. 113–4, § 201(a)(3)(A), (C), (D), inserted “(including the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico)” after “The Attorney General shall allocate to each State”, substituted “0.25 percent” for “0.125 percent”, and struck out at end “The District of Columbia shall be treated as a territory for purposes of calculating its allocation under the preceding formula.”
Subsec. (f)(1). Pub. L. 113–4, § 201(b), substituted “$40,000,000 to remain available until expended for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018” for “$50,000,000 to remain available until expended for each of the fiscal years 2007 through 2011”.

Effective Date of 2013 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 113–4 not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4, set out as a note under section 2261 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.


