§ 5110. Shipping papers and disclosure(a) Providing Shipping Papers.—Each person offering for transportation in commerce hazardous material to which the shipping paper requirements of the Secretary apply shall provide to the carrier providing the transportation a shipping paper that makes the disclosures the Secretary prescribes in regulations.

(b) Keeping Shipping Papers on the Vehicle.—(1) A motor carrier, and the person offering the hazardous material for transportation if a private motor carrier, shall keep the shipping paper on the vehicle transporting the material.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the shipping paper shall be kept in a location the Secretary specifies in a motor vehicle, train, vessel, aircraft, or facility until—(A) the hazardous material no longer is in transportation; or

(B) the documents are made available to a representative of a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government or a State or local authority responding to an accident or incident involving the motor vehicle, train, vessel, aircraft, or facility.



(c) Disclosure to Emergency Response Authorities.—When an incident involving hazardous material being transported in commerce occurs, the person transporting the material, immediately on request of appropriate emergency response authorities, shall disclose to the authorities information about the material.

(d) Retention of Papers.—(1) Offerors.—The person who provides the shipping paper under this section shall retain the paper, or an electronic format of it, for a period of 2 years after the date that the shipping paper is provided to the carrier, with the paper or electronic format to be accessible through the offeror’s principal place of business.

(2) Carriers.—The carrier required to keep the shipping paper under this section,11 So in original. Comma probably should not appear. shall retain the paper, or an electronic format of it, for a period of 1 year after the date that the shipping paper is provided to the carrier, with the paper or electronic format to be accessible through the carrier’s principal place of business.

(3) Availability to government agencies.—Any person required to keep a shipping paper under this subsection shall, upon request, make it available to a Federal, State, or local government agency at reasonable times and locations.


(Pub. L. 103–272, § 1(d), July 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 768; Pub. L. 103–311, title I, § 115, Aug. 26, 1994, 108 Stat. 1678; Pub. L. 109–59, title VII, §§ 7110, 7126, Aug. 10, 2005, 119 Stat. 1898, 1909; Pub. L. 110–244, title III, § 302(i), June 6, 2008, 122 Stat. 1618.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


5110(a)49 App.:1804(g)(1) (1st sentence words before “for the carrier”).Jan. 3, 1975, Pub. L. 93–633, 88 Stat. 2156, § 105(g); added Nov. 16, 1990, Pub. L. 101–615, § 6, 104 Stat. 3253.
5110(b)49 App.:1804(g)(2).
5110(c)49 App.:1804(g)(1) (1st sentence words after “paragraph (2)”, last sentence), (3).
5110(d)49 App.:1804(g)(4).


In subsection (c)(1), the words “A motor carrier” are substituted for “the carrier” for clarity.

Amendments2008—Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 110–244, § 302(i)(2), substituted “offeror’s” for “shipper’s”.
Pub. L. 110–244, § 302(i)(1), which directed substitution of “Offerors” for “Shippers” “in the subsection heading”, was executed by making the substitution in par. (1) heading to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
2005—Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 109–59, § 7126, substituted “Secretary apply” for “Secretary of Transportation apply”.
Pub. L. 109–59, § 7110(a)(1), substituted “in regulations” for “under subsection (b) of this section”.
Subsecs. (b), (c). Pub. L. 109–59, § 7110(a)(2), (3), redesignated subsecs. (c) and (d) as (b) and (c), respectively, and struck out former subsec. (b) which related to considerations and requirements in carrying out subsec. (a).
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 109–59, § 7110(b), reenacted heading without change and amended text of subsec. (d) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “After the hazardous material to which a shipping paper provided to a carrier under subsection (a) applies is no longer in transportation, the person who provided the shipping paper and the carrier required to maintain it under subsection (a) shall retain the paper or electronic image thereof for a period of 1 year to be accessible through their respective principal places of business. Such person and carrier shall, upon request, make the shipping paper available to a Federal, State, or local government agency at reasonable times and locations.”
Pub. L. 109–59, § 7110(a)(3), redesignated subsec. (e) as (d). Former subsec. (d) redesignated (c).
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 109–59, § 7110(a)(3), redesignated subsec. (e) as (d).
1994—Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 103–311 added subsec. (e).

Improvements to Hazardous Materials Identification SystemsPub. L. 101–615, § 25, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3273, provided that:
“(a) Rulemaking Proceeding.—“(1) Initiation.—In order to develop methods of improving the current system of identifying hazardous materials being transported in vehicles for safeguarding the health and safety of persons responding to emergencies involving such hazardous materials and the public and to facilitate the review and reporting process required by subsection (d), the Secretary of Transportation shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 16, 1990].

“(2) Primary purposes.—The primary purposes of the rulemaking proceeding initiated under this subsection are—“(A) to determine methods of improving the current system of placarding vehicles transporting hazardous materials; and

“(B) to determine methods for establishing and operating a central reporting system and computerized telecommunications data center described in subsection (b)(1).


“(3) Methods of improving placarding system.—The methods of improving the current system of placarding to be considered under the rulemaking proceeding initiated under this subsection shall include methods to make such placards more visible, methods to reduce the number of improper and missing placards, alternative methods of marking vehicles for the purpose of identifying the hazardous materials being transported, methods of modifying the composition of placards in order to ensure their resistance to flammability, methods of improving the coding system used with respect to such placards, identification of appropriate emergency response procedures through symbols on placards, and whether or not telephone numbers of any continually monitored telephone systems which are established under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act [see 49 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.] are displayed on vehicles transporting hazardous materials.

“(4) Completion of rulemaking proceeding with respect to reporting system and data center.—Not later than 19 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 16, 1990], the Secretary of Transportation shall complete the rulemaking proceeding initiated with respect to the central reporting system and computerized telecommunications data center described in subsection (b).

“(5) Final rule with respect to placarding.—Not later than 30 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall issue a final rule relating to improving the current system for placarding vehicles transporting hazardous materials.


“(b) Central Reporting System and Computerized Telecommunications Data Center Study.—“(1) Arrangements with national academy of sciences.—Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 16, 1990], the Secretary of Transportation shall undertake to enter into appropriate arrangements with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study of the feasibility and necessity of establishing and operating a central reporting system and computerized telecommunications data center that is capable of receiving, storing, and retrieving data concerning all daily shipments of hazardous materials, that can identify hazardous materials being transported by any mode of transportation, and that can provide information to facilitate responses to accidents and incidents involving the transportation of hazardous materials.

“(2) Consultation and report.—In entering into any arrangements with the National Academy of Sciences for conducting the study under this section, the Secretary of Transportation shall request the National Academy of Sciences—“(A) to consult with the Department of Transportation, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, shippers and carriers of hazardous materials, manufacturers of computerized telecommunications systems, State and local emergency preparedness organizations (including law enforcement and firefighting organizations), and appropriate international organizations in conducting such study; and

“(B) to submit, not later than 19 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, to the Secretary, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committees on Energy and Commerce and Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representatives a report on the results of such study.


Such report shall include recommendations of the National Academy of Sciences with respect to establishment and operation of a central reporting system and computerized telecommunications data center described in paragraph (1).

“(3) Authorization of appropriation.—In addition to amounts authorized under section 115 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act [see 49 U.S.C. 5127(a)], there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Transportation to carry out this subsection $350,000.


“(c) Additional Purposes of Rulemaking Proceeding and Study.—Additional purposes of the rulemaking proceeding initiated under subsection (a) with respect to a central reporting system and computerized telecommunications data center described in subsection (b) and the study conducted under subsection (b) are—“(1) to determine whether such a system and center should be established and operated by the United States Government or by a private entity, either on its own initiative or under contract with the United States;

“(2) to determine, on an annualized basis, the estimated cost for establishing, operating, and maintaining such a system and center and for carrier and shipper compliance with such a system;

“(3) to determine methods for financing the cost of establishing, operating, and maintaining such a system and center;

“(4) to determine projected safety benefits of establishing and operating such a system and center;

“(5) to determine whether or not shippers, carriers, and handlers of hazardous materials, in addition to law enforcement officials and persons responsible for responding to emergencies involving hazardous materials, should have access to such system for obtaining information concerning shipments of hazardous materials and technical and other information and advice with respect to such emergencies;

“(6) to determine methods for ensuring the security of the information and data stored in such a system;

“(7) to determine types of hazardous materials and types of shipments for which information and data should be stored in such a system;

“(8) to determine the degree of liability of the operator of such a system and center for providing incorrect, false, or misleading information;

“(9) to determine deadlines by which shippers, carriers, and handlers of hazardous materials should be required to submit information to the operator of such a system and center and minimum standards relating to the form and contents of such information;

“(10) to determine measures (including the imposition of civil and criminal penalties) for ensuring compliance with the deadlines and standards referred to in paragraph (9); and

“(11) to determine methods for accessing such a system through mobile satellite service or other technologies having the capability to provide 2-way voice, data, or facsimile services.


“(d) Review and Report to Congress.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 25 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 16, 1990], the Secretary of Transportation shall review the report of the National Academy of Sciences submitted under subsection (b) and the results of rulemaking proceeding initiated under subsection (a) with respect to a central reporting system and computerized telecommunications data center and shall prepare and submit to Congress a report summarizing the report of the National Academy of Sciences and the results of such rulemaking proceeding, together with the Secretary’s recommendations concerning the establishment and operation of such a system and center and the Secretary’s recommendations concerning implementation of the recommendations contained in the report of the National Academy of Sciences.

“(2) Weight to be given to recommendations of nas.—In conducting the review and preparing the report under this subsection, the Secretary shall give substantial weight to the recommendations contained in the report of the National Academy of Sciences submitted under subsection (b).

“(3) Inclusion of reasons for not following recommendations.—If the Secretary does not include in the report prepared for submission to Congress under this subsection a recommendation for implementation of a recommendation contained in the report of the National Academy of Sciences submitted under subsection (b), the Secretary shall include in the report to Congress under this subsection the Secretary’s reasons for not recommending implementation of the recommendation of the National Academy of Sciences.”





Continually Monitored Telephone SystemsPub. L. 101–615, § 26, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3273, provided that:
“(a) Rulemaking Proceeding.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 16, 1990], the Secretary of Transportation shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding on the feasibility, necessity, and safety benefits of requiring carriers involved in the hazardous materials transportation industry to establish continually monitored telephone systems equipped to provide emergency response information and assistance with respect to accidents and incidents involving hazardous materials. Additional objectives of such proceeding shall be to determine which hazardous materials, if any, should be covered by such a requirement and which segments of such industry (including persons who own and operate motor vehicles, trains, vessels, aircraft, and in-transit storage facilities) should be covered by such a requirement.

“(b) Completion of Proceeding.—Not later than 30 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 16, 1990], the Secretary of Transportation shall complete the proceeding under this section and may issue a final rule relating to establishment of continually monitored telephone systems described in subsection (a).”





