“Sec. 29. [Public Health Service Act; amendment.] (a) Subsection (f) of section 2 of the Public Health Service Act, relating to definition of State, is amended by striking out ‘Hawaii,’.

“(b) The first sentence of section 331 of such Act, relating to receipt and treatment of lepers, is amended by striking out ‘, Territory, or the District of Columbia’. The fifth sentence of such section is amended by striking out ‘the Territory of Hawaii’ and inserting in lieu thereof ‘Hawaii’.

“(c) Subsection (c) of section 361 of such Act, relating to regulations governing apprehension and detention of persons to prevent the spread of a communicable disease, is amended by striking out ‘, the Territory of Hawaii,’.

“(d)(1) Clause (2) of subsection (a) of section 631 of such Act, relating to definition of allotment percentage for purposes of allotments for construction of hospitals and other medical service facilities, is amended by striking out ‘the allotment percentage for Hawaii shall be 50 per centum, and’.

“(2) Such subsection is further amended by striking out ‘continental United States (including Alaska)’ and inserting in lieu thereof ‘United States’.

“(3) Subsection (b) of such section, relating to promulgation of allotment percentages, is amended by striking out ‘continental United States’ and inserting in lieu thereof ‘United States’. Such subsection is further amended by inserting ‘(1)’ after ‘(b)’ and by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:“ ‘(2) The term “United States” means (but only for purposes of this subsection and subsection (a)) the fifty States and the District of Columbia;
“ ‘(3) Promulgations made before satisfactory data are available from the Department of Commerce for a full year on the per capita income of Alaska shall prescribe an allotment percentage for Alaska of 50 per centum and, for purposes of such promulgation, Alaska shall not be included as part of the “United States”. Promulgations made thereafter but before per capita income data for Alaska for a full three-year period are available from the Department of Commerce shall be based on satisfactory data available therefrom for Alaska for such one full year or, when such data are available for a two-year period, for such two years;’.


“(4) Subsection (d) of such section, relating to definition of State, is further amended by striking out ‘Hawaii,’.


