§ 14045a. Enhancing culturally specific services for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking(a) Establishment(1) In generalOf the amounts appropriated under certain grant programs identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this Section,11 So in original. Probably should not be capitalized. the Attorney General, through the Director of the Violence Against Women Office (referred to in this section as the “Director”), shall take 5 percent of such appropriated amounts and combine them to establish a new grant program to enhance culturally specific services for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. Grants made under this new program shall be administered by the Director. The requirements of the grant programs identified in paragraph (2) shall not apply to this new grant program.


(2) Programs coveredThe programs covered by paragraph (1) are the programs carried out under the following provisions:(A) Section 3796hh of this title (Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection Orders).

(B) Section 3796gg–6 of this title 22 See References in Text note below. (Legal Assistance for Victims).

(C) Section 13971 of this title (Rural Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, Stalking, and Child Abuse Enforcement Assistance).

(D) Section 14041a of this title (Enhanced Training and Services to End Violence Against Women Later in Life).2

(E) Section 3796gg–7 of this title (Education, Training, and Enhanced Services to End Violence Against and Abuse of Women with Disabilities).



(b) Purpose of program and grants(1) General program purposeThe purpose of the program required by this section is to promote:(A) The maintenance and replication of existing successful services in domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking community-based programs providing culturally specific services and other resources.

(B) The development of innovative culturally specific strategies and projects to enhance access to services and resources for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking who face obstacles to using more traditional services and resources.


(2) Purposes for which grants may be usedThe Director shall make grants to community-based programs for the purpose of enhancing culturally specific services for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. Grants under the program shall support community-based efforts to address distinctive cultural responses to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking, including—(A) working with State and local governments and social service agencies to develop and enhance effective strategies to provide culturally specific services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;

(B) increasing communities’ capacity to provide culturally specific resources and support for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking crimes and their families;

(C) strengthening criminal justice interventions, by providing training for law enforcement, prosecution, courts, probation, and correctional facilities on culturally specific responses to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;

(D) enhancing traditional services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking through the leadership of culturally specific programs offering services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;

(E) working in cooperation with the community to develop education and prevention strategies highlighting culturally specific issues and resources regarding victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;

(F) providing culturally specific programs for children exposed to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking;

(G) providing culturally specific resources and services that address the safety, economic, housing, and workplace needs of victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, including emergency assistance; or

(H) examining the dynamics of culture and its impact on victimization and healing.


(3) Technical assistance and trainingThe Director shall provide technical assistance and training to grantees of this and other programs under this Act regarding the development and provision of effective culturally specific community-based services by entering into cooperative agreements or contracts with an organization or organizations having a demonstrated expertise in and whose primary purpose is addressing the development and provision of culturally specific community-based services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.



(c) Eligible entitiesEligible entities for grants under this Section 1 include—(1) community-based programs whose primary purpose is providing culturally specific services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; and

(2) community-based programs whose primary purpose is providing culturally specific services who can partner with a program having demonstrated expertise in serving victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.


(d) ReportingThe Director shall issue a biennial report on the distribution of funding under this section, the progress made in replicating and supporting increased services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking who face obstacles to using more traditional services and resources, and the types of culturally accessible programs, strategies, technical assistance, and training developed or enhanced through this program.


(e) Grant periodThe Director shall award grants for a 2-year period, with a possible extension of another 2 years to implement projects under the grant.


(f) EvaluationThe Director shall award a contract or cooperative agreement to evaluate programs under this section to an entity with the demonstrated expertise in and primary goal of providing enhanced cultural access to services and resources for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking who face obstacles to using more traditional services and resources.


(g) Non-exclusivityNothing in this Section 1 shall be interpreted to exclude culturally specific community-based programs from applying to other grant programs authorized under this Act.


(h) Definitions and grant conditionsIn this section the definitions and grant conditions in section 13925 of this title shall apply.


(Pub. L. 109–162, title I, § 121, Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 2991; Pub. L. 109–271, §§ 1(c)(3), 2(k), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 751, 753; Pub. L. 113–4, title I, § 109, Mar. 7, 2013, 127 Stat. 80.)


References in TextSection 3796gg–6 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(B), was in the original “Section 14201 of division B of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg–6)”, which was translated as meaning “Section 1201 of division B of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 3796gg–6)” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
The parenthetical reference “(Enhanced Training and Services to End Violence Against Women Later in Life)” appearing after “Section 14041a of this title” in subsec. (a)(2)(D), probably should be “(Enhanced Training and Services to End Violence Against and Abuse of Women Later in Life)”. Section 14041a of this title was omitted in the general amendment of Part G of subchapter III of this chapter by Pub. L. 113–4, title II, § 204(a), Mar. 7, 2013, 127 Stat. 82.
This Act, referred to in subsecs. (b)(3) and (g), is Pub. L. 109–162, Jan. 5, 2006, 119 Stat. 2960, known as the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2006 Amendment note set out under section 13701 of this title and Tables.

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, and not as part of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 which enacted this chapter.

Amendments2013—Pub. L. 113–4, § 109(1)–(3), struck out “and linguistically” after “culturally” in section catchline and wherever appearing in text and struck out “and linguistic” after “cultural” in subsecs. (b)(2) and (f).
Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 113–4, § 109(4), added par. (2) and struck out former par. (2) which related to covered programs.
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 113–4, § 109(5), struck out “linguistic and” before “culturally”.
2006—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 109–271, § 2(k)(1), inserted “The requirements of the grant programs identified in paragraph (2) shall not apply to this new grant program.” at end.
Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 109–271, § 2(k)(2), which directed substituting “, including—” and subpars. (A) to (H) for the period, was executed by making the substitution for the period at the end to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 109–271, § 1(c)(3), added subsec. (h).

Effective Date of 2013 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 113–4 not effective until the beginning of the fiscal year following Mar. 7, 2013, see section 4 of Pub. L. 113–4, set out as a note under section 2261 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

Effective DateSection not effective until the beginning of fiscal year 2007, see section 4 of Pub. L. 109–162, set out as an Effective Date of 2006 Amendment note under section 3793 of this title.


