§ 16352. Cost sharing(a) ApplicabilityNotwithstanding any other provision of law, in carrying out a research, development, demonstration, or commercial application program or activity that is initiated after August 8, 2005, the Secretary shall require cost-sharing in accordance with this section.


(b) Research and development(1) In generalExcept as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) and subsection (f), the Secretary shall require not less than 20 percent of the cost of a research or development activity described in subsection (a) to be provided by a non-Federal source.


(2) ExclusionParagraph (1) shall not apply to a research or development activity described in subsection (a) that is of a basic or fundamental nature, as determined by the appropriate officer of the Department.


(3) ReductionThe Secretary may reduce or eliminate the requirement of paragraph (1) for a research and development activity of an applied nature if the Secretary determines that the reduction is necessary and appropriate.



(c) Demonstration and commercial application(1) In generalExcept as provided in paragraph (2) and subsection (f), the Secretary shall require that not less than 50 percent of the cost of a demonstration or commercial application activity described in subsection (a) to 11 So in original. The word “to” probably should not appear. be provided by a non-Federal source.


(2) Reduction of non-Federal shareThe Secretary may reduce the non-Federal share required under paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines the reduction to be necessary and appropriate, taking into consideration any technological risk relating to the activity.



(d) Calculation of amountIn calculating the amount of a non-Federal contribution under this section, the Secretary—(1) may include allowable costs in accordance with the applicable cost principles, including—(A) cash;

(B) personnel costs;

(C) the value of a service, other resource, or third party in-kind contribution determined in accordance with the applicable circular of the Office of Management and Budget;

(D) indirect costs or facilities and administrative costs; or

(E) any funds received under the power program of the Tennessee Valley Authority (except to the extent that such funds are made available under an annual appropriation Act); and


(2) shall not include—(A) revenues or royalties from the prospective operation of an activity beyond the time considered in the award;

(B) proceeds from the prospective sale of an asset of an activity; or

(C) other appropriated Federal funds.



(e) Repayment of Federal shareThe Secretary shall not require repayment of the Federal share of a cost-shared activity under this section as a condition of making an award.


(f) ExclusionsThis section shall not apply to—(1) a cooperative research and development agreement under the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.);

(2) a fee charged for the use of a Department facility; or

(3) an award under—(A) the small business innovation research program under section 638 of title 15; or

(B) the small business technology transfer program under that section.



(Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 988, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 910.)


References in TextThe Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, referred to in subsec. (f)(1), is Pub. L. 96–480, Oct. 21, 1980, 94 Stat. 2311, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 63 (§ 3701 et seq.) of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3701 of Title 15 and Tables.


