§ 6383. Accounting practices(a) Development by Securities and Exchange Commission; time of taking effectFor purposes of developing a reliable energy data base related to the production of crude oil and natural gas, the Securities and Exchange Commission shall take such steps as may be necessary to assure the development and observance of accounting practices to be followed in the preparation of accounts by persons engaged, in whole or in part, in the production of crude oil or natural gas in the United States. Such practices shall be developed not later than 24 months after December 22, 1975, and shall take effect with respect to the fiscal year of each such person which begins 3 months after the date on which such practices are prescribed or made effective under the authority of subsection (b)(2) of this section.


(b) Consultation with Secretary, Government Accountability Office and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; rules; reliance on practices developed by Financial Accounting Standards Board; opportunity to submit written commentIn carrying out its responsibilities under subsection (a) of this section, the Securities and Exchange Commission shall—(1) consult with the Secretary, the Government Accountability Office, and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with respect to accounting practices to be developed under subsection (a) of this section, and

(2) have authority to prescribe rules applicable to persons engaged in the production of crude oil or natural gas, or make effective by recognition, or by other appropriate means indicating a determination to rely on, accounting practices developed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, if the Securities and Exchange Commission is assured that such practice will be observed by persons engaged in the production of crude oil or natural gas to the same extent as would result if the Securities and Exchange Commission had prescribed such practices by rule.


The Securities and Exchange Commission shall afford interested persons an opportunity to submit written comments with respect to whether it should exercise its discretion to recognize or otherwise rely on such accounting practice in lieu of prescribing such practices by rule and may extend the 24-month period referred to in subsection (a) of this section as it determines may be necessary to allow for a meaningful comment period with respect to such determination.

(c) Requirements for accounting practicesThe Securities and Exchange Commission shall assure that accounting practices developed pursuant to this section, to the greatest extent practicable, permit the compilation, treating domestic and foreign operations as separate categories, of an energy data base consisting of:(1) The separate calculation of capital, revenue, and operating cost information pertaining to—(A) prospecting,

(B) acquisition,

(C) exploration,

(D) development, and

(E) production,


including geological and geophysical costs, carrying costs, unsuccessful exploratory drilling costs, intangible drilling and development costs on productive wells, the cost of unsuccessful development wells, and the cost of acquiring oil and gas reserves by means other than development. Any such calculation shall take into account disposition of capitalized costs, contractual arrangements involving special conveyance of rights and joint operations, differences between book and tax income, and prices used in the transfer of products or other assets from one person to any other person, including a person controlled by, controlling, or under common control with such person.

(2) The full presentation of the financial information of persons engaged in the production of crude oil or natural gas, including—(A) disclosure of reserves and operating activities, both domestic and foreign, to facilitate evaluation of financial effort and result; and

(B) classification of financial information by function to facilitate correlation with reserve and operating statistics, both domestic and foreign.


(3) Such other information, projections, and relationships of collected data as shall be necessary to facilitate the compilation of such data base.


(Pub. L. 94–163, title V, § 503, Dec. 22, 1975, 89 Stat. 958; Pub. L. 95–91, title III, § 301, title IV, § 402, title VII, §§ 703, 707, Aug. 4, 1977, 91 Stat. 577, 583, 606, 607; Pub. L. 105–388, § 5(a)(15), Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3479; Pub. L. 108–271, § 8(b), July 7, 2004, 118 Stat. 814.)

Amendments2004—Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 108–271 substituted “Government Accountability Office” for “General Accounting Office”.
1998—Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 105–388, § 5(a)(15)(A), substituted “with respect to” for “with repect to” in concluding provisions.
Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 105–388, § 5(a)(15)(B), substituted “, controlling,” for “controlling” in concluding provisions.


Transfer of Functions
“Secretary” and “Federal Energy Regulatory Commission” substituted for “Federal Energy Administration” and “Federal Power Commission”, respectively, in subsec. (b)(1) pursuant to sections 301, 402, 703, and 707 of Pub. L. 95–91, which are classified to sections 7151, 7172, 7293, and 7297 of this title and which terminated Federal Energy Administration and transferred its functions (with certain exceptions) to Secretary of Energy and terminated Federal Power Commission and transferred its functions to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and Secretary of Energy.


