§ 16023. Project organization(a) Major project elementsThe Project shall consist of the following major program elements:(1) High-temperature hydrogen production technology development and validation.

(2) Energy conversion technology development and validation.

(3) Nuclear fuel development, characterization, and qualification.

(4) Materials selection, development, testing, and qualification.

(5) Reactor and balance-of-plant design, engineering, safety analysis, and qualification.


(b) Project phasesThe Project shall be conducted in the following phases:(1) First project phaseA first project phase shall be conducted to—(A) select and validate the appropriate technology under subsection (a)(1);

(B) carry out enabling research, development, and demonstration activities on technologies and components under paragraphs (2) through (4) of subsection (a);

(C) determine whether it is appropriate to combine electricity generation and hydrogen production in a single prototype nuclear reactor and plant; and

(D) carry out initial design activities for a prototype nuclear reactor and plant, including development of design methods and safety analytical methods and studies under subsection (a)(5).


(2) Second project phaseA second project phase shall be conducted to—(A) continue appropriate activities under paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (a);

(B) develop, through a competitive process, a final design for the prototype nuclear reactor and plant;

(C) apply for licenses to construct and operate the prototype nuclear reactor from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; and

(D) construct and start up operations of the prototype nuclear reactor and its associated hydrogen or electricity production facilities.



(c) Project requirements(1) In generalThe Secretary shall ensure that the Project is structured so as to maximize the technical interchange and transfer of technologies and ideas into the Project from other sources of relevant expertise, including—(A) the nuclear power industry, including nuclear powerplant construction firms, particularly with respect to issues associated with plant design, construction, and operational and safety issues;

(B) the chemical processing industry, particularly with respect to issues relating to—(i) the use of process energy for production of hydrogen; and

(ii) the integration of technologies developed by the Project into chemical processing environments; and


(C) international efforts in areas related to the Project, particularly with respect to hydrogen production technologies.


(2) International collaboration(A) In generalThe Secretary shall seek international cooperation, participation, and financial contributions for the Project.


(B) Assistance from international partnersThe Secretary, through the Idaho National Laboratory, may contract for assistance from specialists or facilities from member countries of the Generation IV International Forum, the Russian Federation, or other international partners if the specialists or facilities provide access to cost-effective and relevant skills or test capabilities.


(C) Partner nationsThe Project may involve demonstration of selected project objectives in a partner country.


(D) Generation IV International ForumThe Secretary shall ensure that international activities of the Project are coordinated with the Generation IV International Forum.



(3) Review by Nuclear Energy Research Advisory Committee(A) In generalThe Nuclear Energy Research Advisory Committee of the Department (referred to in this paragraph as the “NERAC”) shall—(i) review all program plans for the Project and all progress under the Project on an ongoing basis; and

(ii) ensure that important scientific, technical, safety, and program management issues receive attention in the Project and by the Secretary.


(B) Additional expertiseThe NERAC shall supplement the expertise of the NERAC or appoint subpanels to incorporate into the review by the NERAC the relevant sources of expertise described under paragraph (1).


(C) Initial reviewNot later than 180 days after August 8, 2005, the NERAC shall—(i) review existing program plans for the Project in light of the recommendations of the document entitled “Design Features and Technology Uncertainties for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant,” dated June 30, 2004; and

(ii) address any recommendations of the document not incorporated in program plans for the Project.


(D) First project phase reviewOn a determination by the Secretary that the appropriate activities under the first project phase under subsection (b)(1) are nearly complete, the Secretary shall request the NERAC to conduct a comprehensive review of the Project and to report to the Secretary the recommendation of the NERAC concerning whether the Project is ready to proceed to the second project phase under subsection (b)(2).


(E) Transmittal of reports to CongressNot later than 60 days after receiving any report from the NERAC related to the Project, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives a copy of the report, along with any additional views of the Secretary that the Secretary may consider appropriate.




(Pub. L. 109–58, title VI, § 643, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 795.)
