§ 16295. Oil and gas research programs(a) In generalThe Secretary shall conduct a program of research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of oil and gas, including—(1) exploration and production;

(2) gas hydrates;

(3) reservoir life and extension;

(4) transportation and distribution infrastructure;

(5) ultraclean fuels;

(6) heavy oil, oil shale, and tar sands; and

(7) related environmental research.


(b) ObjectivesThe objectives of this program shall include advancing the science and technology available to domestic petroleum producers, particularly independent operators, to minimize the economic dislocation caused by the decline of domestic supplies of oil and natural gas resources.


(c) Natural gas and oil deposits reportNot later than 2 years after August 8, 2005, and every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with other appropriate Federal agencies, shall submit to Congress a report on the latest estimates of natural gas and oil reserves, reserves growth, and undiscovered resources in Federal and State waters off the coast of Louisiana, Texas, Alabama, and Mississippi.


(d) Integrated clean power and energy research(1) Establishment of centerThe Secretary shall establish a national center or consortium of excellence in clean energy and power generation, using the resources of the Clean Power and Energy Research Consortium in existence on August 8, 2005, to address the critical dependence of the United States on energy and the need to reduce emissions.


(2) Focus areasThe center or consortium shall conduct a program of research, development, demonstration, and commercial application on integrating the following 6 focus areas:(A) Efficiency and reliability of gas turbines for power generation.

(B) Reduction in emissions from power generation.

(C) Promotion of energy conservation issues.

(D) Effectively using alternative fuels and renewable energy.

(E) Development of advanced materials technology for oil and gas exploration and use in harsh environments.

(F) Education on energy and power generation issues.



(Pub. L. 109–58, title IX, § 965, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 892.)
