§ 285b–7. National Center on Sleep Disorders Research(a) EstablishmentNot later than 1 year after June 10, 1993, the Director of the Institute shall establish the National Center on Sleep Disorders Research (in this section referred to as the “Center”). The Center shall be headed by a director, who shall be appointed by the Director of the Institute.


(b) PurposeThe general purpose of the Center is—(1) the conduct and support of research, training, health information dissemination, and other activities with respect to sleep disorders, including biological and circadian rhythm research, basic understanding of sleep, chronobiological and other sleep related research; and

(2) to coordinate the activities of the Center with similar activities of other Federal agencies, including the other agencies of the National Institutes of Health, and similar activities of other public entities and nonprofit entities.


(c) Sleep Disorders Research Advisory Board(1) The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall establish a board to be known as the Sleep Disorders Research Advisory Board (in this section referred to as the “Advisory Board”).

(2) The Advisory Board shall advise, assist, consult with, and make recommendations to the Director of the National Institutes of Health, through the Director of the Institute, and the Director of the Center concerning matters relating to the scientific activities carried out by and through the Center and the policies respecting such activities, including recommendations with respect to the plan required in subsection (c) 11 So in original. Probably should be subsection “(d)”. of this section.

(3)(A) The Director of the National Institutes of Health shall appoint to the Advisory Board 12 appropriately qualified representatives of the public who are not officers or employees of the Federal Government. Of such members, eight shall be representatives of health and scientific disciplines with respect to sleep disorders and four shall be individuals representing the interests of individuals with or undergoing treatment for sleep disorders.

(B) The following officials shall serve as ex officio members of the Advisory Board:(i) The Director of the National Institutes of Health.

(ii) The Director of the Center.

(iii) The Director of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute.

(iv) The Director of the National Institute of Mental Health.

(v) The Director of the National Institute on Aging.

(vi) The Director of the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development.

(vii) The Director of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.

(viii) The Assistant Secretary for Health.

(ix) The Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs).

(x) The Chief Medical Director of the Veterans’ Administration.



(4) The members of the Advisory Board shall, from among the members of the Advisory Board, designate an individual to serve as the chair of the Advisory Board.

(5) Except as inconsistent with, or inapplicable to, this section, the provisions of section 284a of this title shall apply to the advisory board 22 So in original. Probably should be capitalized. established under this section in the same manner as such provisions apply to any advisory council established under such section.


(d) Development of comprehensive research plan; revision(1) After consultation with the Director of the Center and the advisory board 2 established under subsection (c) of this section, the Director of the National Institutes of Health shall develop a comprehensive plan for the conduct and support of sleep disorders research.

(2) The plan developed under paragraph (1) shall identify priorities with respect to such research and shall provide for the coordination of such research conducted or supported by the agencies of the National Institutes of Health.

(3) The Director of the National Institutes of Health (after consultation with the Director of the Center and the advisory board 2 established under subsection (c) of this section) shall revise the plan developed under paragraph (1) as appropriate.


(e) Collection and dissemination of informationThe Director of the Center, in cooperation with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, is authorized to coordinate activities with the Department of Transportation, the Department of Defense, the Department of Education, the Department of Labor, and the Department of Commerce to collect data, conduct studies, and disseminate public information concerning the impact of sleep disorders and sleep deprivation.


(July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IV, § 424, as added Pub. L. 103–43, title V, § 503, June 10, 1993, 107 Stat. 159; amended Pub. L. 110–154, § 1(b)(5), Dec. 21, 2007, 121 Stat. 1827.)

Amendments2007—Subsec. (c)(3)(B)(vi). Pub. L. 110–154 substituted “Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development” for “National Institute of Child Health and Human Development”.


Change of Name
Reference to Chief Medical Director of Department of Veterans Affairs deemed to refer to Under Secretary for Health of Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to section 302(e) of Pub. L. 102–405, set out as a note under section 305 of Title 38, Veterans’ Benefits.
Reference to Chief Medical Director of Veterans’ Administration deemed to refer to Chief Medical Director of Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to section 10 of Pub. L. 100–527, set out as a Department of Veterans Affairs Act note under section 201 of Title 38.

Termination of Advisory BoardsAdvisory boards established after Jan. 5, 1973, to terminate not later than the expiration of the 2-year period beginning on the date of their establishment, unless, in the case of a board established by the President or an officer of the Federal Government, such board is renewed by appropriate action prior to the expiration of such 2-year period, or in the case of a board established by Congress, its duration is otherwise provided by law. See sections 3(2) and 14 of Pub. L. 92–463, Oct. 6, 1972, 86 Stat. 770, 776, set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.
Pub. L. 93–641, § 6, Jan. 4, 1975, 88 Stat. 2275, set out as a note under section 217a of this title, provided that an advisory committee established pursuant to the Public Health Service Act shall terminate at such time as may be specifically prescribed by an Act of Congress enacted after Jan. 4, 1975.


