§ 4366. Identification and coordination of research, development, and demonstration activities(a) Consultation and cooperation of Administrator of Environmental Protection Agency with heads of Federal agencies; inclusion of activities in annual revisions of plan for research, etc.The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation and cooperation with the heads of other Federal agencies, shall take such actions on a continuing basis as may be necessary or appropriate—(1) to identify environmental research, development, and demonstration activities, within and outside the Federal Government, which may need to be more effectively coordinated in order to minimize unnecessary duplication of programs, projects, and research facilities;

(2) to determine the steps which might be taken under existing law, by him and by the heads of such other agencies, to accomplish or promote such coordination, and to provide for or encourage the taking of such steps; and

(3) to determine the additional legislative actions which would be needed to assure such coordination to the maximum extent possible.


The Administrator shall include in each annual revision of the five-year plan provided for by section 4361 11 See References in Text note below. of this title a full and complete report on the actions taken and determinations made during the preceding year under this subsection, and may submit interim reports on such actions and determinations at such other times as he deems appropriate.

(b) Coordination of programs by AdministratorThe Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall coordinate environmental research, development, and demonstration programs of such Agency with the heads of other Federal agencies in order to minimize unnecessary duplication of programs, projects, and research facilities.


(c) Joint study by Council on Environmental Quality in consultation with Office of Science and Technology Policy for coordination of activities; report to President and Congress; report by President to Congress on implementation of joint study and report(1) In order to promote the coordination of environmental research and development activities, and to assure that the action taken and methods used (under subsection (a) of this section and otherwise) to bring about such coordination will be as effective as possible for that purpose, the Council on Environmental Quality in consultation with the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall promptly undertake and carry out a joint study of all aspects of the coordination of environmental research and development. The Chairman of the Council shall prepare a report on the results of such study, together with such recommendations (including legislative recommendations) as he deems appropriate, and shall submit such report to the President and the Congress not later than May 31, 1978.

(2) Not later than September 30, 1978, the President shall report to the Congress on steps he has taken to implement the recommendations included in the report under paragraph (1), including any recommendations he may have for legislation.


(Pub. L. 95–155, § 9, Nov. 8, 1977, 91 Stat. 1261.)


References in TextSection 4361 of this title, referred to in subsec. (a), was repealed by Pub. L. 104–66, title II, § 2021(k)(1), Dec. 21, 1995, 109 Stat. 728.

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the Environmental Research, Development, and Demonstration Authorization Act of 1978, and not as part of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 which comprises this chapter.

Coordination of Environmental Research, Development, and Demonstration Efforts; Study and ReportPub. L. 95–477, § 3(c), Oct. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 1509, authorized to be appropriated to the Environmental Protection Agency for the fiscal year 1979, $1,000,000, and for the fiscal year 1980, $1,000,000, for a study and report, under a contract let by the Administrator, to be conducted outside the Federal Government, on coordination of the Federal Government’s efforts in environmental research, development, and demonstration, and the application of the results of such efforts to environmental problems, with the report on the study submitted to the President, the Administrator, and the Congress within two years after Oct. 18, 1978, accompanied by recommendations for action by the President, the Administrator, other agencies, or the Congress, as may be appropriate.


