“SEC. 403. RADON GAS AND INDOOR AIR QUALITY RESEARCH PROGRAM.“(a) Design of Program.—The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall establish a research program with respect to radon gas and indoor air quality. Such program shall be designed to—“(1) gather data and information on all aspects of indoor air quality in order to contribute to the understanding of health problems associated with the existence of air pollutants in the indoor environment;

“(2) coordinate Federal, State, local, and private research and development efforts relating to the improvement of indoor air quality; and

“(3) assess appropriate Federal Government actions to mitigate the environmental and health risks associated with indoor air quality problems.


“(b) Program Requirements.—The research program required under this section shall include—“(1) research and development concerning the identification, characterization, and monitoring of the sources and levels of indoor air pollution, including radon, which includes research and development relating to—“(A) the measurement of various pollutant concentrations and their strengths and sources,

“(B) high-risk building types, and

“(C) instruments for indoor air quality data collection;


“(2) research relating to the effects of indoor air pollution and radon on human health;

“(3) research and development relating to control technologies or other mitigation measures to prevent or abate indoor air pollution (including the development, evaluation, and testing of individual and generic control devices and systems);

“(4) demonstration of methods for reducing or eliminating indoor air pollution and radon, including sealing, venting, and other methods that the Administrator determines may be effective;

“(5) research, to be carried out in conjunction with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, for the purpose of developing—“(A) methods for assessing the potential for radon contamination of new construction, including (but not limited to) consideration of the moisture content of soil, porosity of soil, and radon content of soil; and

“(B) design measures to avoid indoor air pollution; and


“(6) the dissemination of information to assure the public availability of the findings of the activities under this section.


“(c) Advisory Committees.—The Administrator shall establish a committee comprised of individuals representing Federal agencies concerned with various aspects of indoor air quality and an advisory group comprised of individuals representing the States, the scientific community, industry, and public interest organizations to assist him in carrying out the research program for radon gas and indoor air quality.

“(d) Implementation Plan.—Not later than 90 days after the enactment of this Act [Oct. 17, 1986], the Administrator shall submit to the Congress a plan for implementation of the research program under this section. Such plan shall also be submitted to the EPA Science Advisory Board, which shall, within a reasonable period of time, submit its comments on such plan to Congress.

“(e) Report.—Not later than 2 years after the enactment of this Act [Oct. 17, 1986], the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report respecting his activities under this section and making such recommendations as appropriate.

