§ 3058. National Intelligence Centers(a) Authority to establishThe Director of National Intelligence may establish one or more national intelligence centers to address intelligence priorities, including, but not limited to, regional issues.


(b) Resources of directors of centers(1) The Director of National Intelligence shall ensure that the head of each national intelligence center under subsection (a) of this section has appropriate authority, direction, and control of such center, and of the personnel assigned to such center, to carry out the assigned mission of such center.

(2) The Director of National Intelligence shall ensure that each national intelligence center has appropriate personnel to accomplish effectively the mission of such center.


(c) Information sharingThe Director of National Intelligence shall, to the extent appropriate and practicable, ensure that each national intelligence center under subsection (a) of this section and the other elements of the intelligence community share information in order to facilitate the mission of such center.


(d) Mission of centersPursuant to the direction of the Director of National Intelligence, each national intelligence center under subsection (a) of this section may, in the area of intelligence responsibility assigned to such center—(1) have primary responsibility for providing all-source analysis of intelligence based upon intelligence gathered both domestically and abroad;

(2) have primary responsibility for identifying and proposing to the Director of National Intelligence intelligence collection and analysis and production requirements; and

(3) perform such other duties as the Director of National Intelligence shall specify.


(e) Review and modification of centersThe Director of National Intelligence shall determine on a regular basis whether—(1) the area of intelligence responsibility assigned to each national intelligence center under subsection (a) of this section continues to meet appropriate intelligence priorities; and

(2) the staffing and management of such center remains appropriate for the accomplishment of the mission of such center.


(f) TerminationThe Director of National Intelligence may terminate any national intelligence center under subsection (a) of this section.


(g) Separate budget accountThe Director of National Intelligence shall, as appropriate, include in the National Intelligence Program budget a separate line item for each national intelligence center under subsection (a) of this section.


(July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title I, § 119B, as added Pub. L. 108–458, title I, § 1023, Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3676.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 404o–2 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Effective DateFor Determination by President that section take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note under section 3001 of this title.
Section effective not later than six months after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108–458, set out in an Effective Date of 2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under section 3001 of this title.


