“SEC. 10. REPORTS REQUIRED.“(a) Report on Certain International Initiatives.—Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 5, 1996], and every 6 months thereafter, the President shall transmit a report to the appropriate congressional committees describing—“(1) the efforts of the President to mount a multilateral campaign to persuade all countries to pressure Iran to cease its nuclear, chemical, biological, and missile weapons programs and its support of acts of international terrorism;

“(2) the efforts of the President to persuade other governments to ask Iran to reduce the presence of Iranian diplomats and representatives of other government and military or quasi-governmental institutions of Iran and to withdraw any such diplomats or representatives who participated in the takeover of the United States embassy in Tehran on November 4, 1979, or the subsequent holding of United States hostages for 444 days;

“(3) the extent to which the International Atomic Energy Agency has established regular inspections of all nuclear facilities in Iran, including those presently under construction; and

“(4) Iran’s use of Iranian diplomats and representatives of other government and military or quasi-governmental institutions of Iran to promote acts of international terrorism or to develop or sustain Iran’s nuclear, chemical, biological, and missile weapons programs.


“(b) Report on Effectiveness of Actions Under This Act.—Not earlier than 24 months, and not later than 30 months, after the date of the enactment of the ILSA Extension Act of 2001 [Aug. 3, 2001], the President shall transmit to Congress a report that describes—“(1) the extent to which actions relating to trade taken pursuant to this Act—“(A) have been effective in achieving the objectives of section 3 and any other foreign policy or national security objectives of the United States with respect to Iran; and

“(B) have affected humanitarian interests in Iran, the country in which the sanctioned person is located, or in other countries; and


“(2) the impact of actions relating to trade taken pursuant to this Act on other national security, economic, and foreign policy interests of the United States, including relations with countries friendly to the United States, and on the United States economy.


The President may include in the report the President’s recommendation on whether or not this Act should be terminated or modified.

“(c) Other Reports.—The President shall ensure the continued transmittal to the Congress of reports describing—“(1) the nuclear and other military capabilities of Iran, as required by section 601(a) of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978 [22 U.S.C. 3281(a)] and section 1607 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 [Pub. L. 102–484, set out below]; and

“(2) the support provided by Iran for acts of international terrorism, as part of the Department of State’s annual report on international terrorism.


“(d) Reports on Global Trade Relating to Iran.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 [July 1, 2010], and annually thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report, with respect to the most recent 12-month period for which data are available, on the dollar value amount of trade, including in the energy sector, between Iran and each country maintaining membership in the Group of 20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors.

