“SEC. 1605. SANCTIONS AGAINST CERTAIN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.“(a) Prohibition.—If the President determines that the government of any foreign country transfers or retransfers goods or technology so as to contribute knowingly and materially to the efforts by Iran or Iraq (or any agency or instrumentality of either such country) to acquire chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons or to acquire destabilizing numbers and types of advanced conventional weapons, then—“(1) the sanctions described in subsection (b) shall be imposed on such country; and

“(2) in addition, the President may apply, in the discretion of the President, the sanction described in subsection (c).


“(b) Mandatory Sanctions.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the sanctions to be imposed pursuant to subsection (a)(1) are as follows:“(1) Suspension of united states assistance.—The United States Government shall suspend, for a period of one year, United States assistance to the sanctioned country.

“(2) Multilateral development bank assistance.—The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director to each appropriate international financial institution to oppose, and vote against, for a period of one year, the extension by such institution of any loan or financial or technical assistance to the sanctioned country.

“(3) Suspension of codevelopment or coproduction agreements.—The United States shall suspend, for a period of one year, compliance with its obligations under any memorandum of understanding with the sanctioned country for the codevelopment or coproduction of any item on the United States Munitions List (established under section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act [22 U.S.C. 2778]), including any obligation for implementation of the memorandum of understanding through the sale to the sanctioned country of technical data or assistance or the licensing for export to the sanctioned country of any component part.

“(4) Suspension of military and dual-use technical exchange agreements.—The United States shall suspend, for a period of one year, compliance with its obligations under any technical exchange agreement involving military and dual-use technology between the United States and the sanctioned country that does not directly contribute to the security of the United States, and no military or dual-use technology may be exported from the United States to the sanctioned country pursuant to that agreement during that period.

“(5) United states munitions list.—No item on the United States Munitions List (established pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act) may be exported to the sanctioned country for a period of one year.


“(c) Discretionary Sanction.—The sanction referred to in subsection (a)(2) is as follows:“(1) Use of authorities of international emergency economic powers act.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the President may exercise, in accordance with the provisions of that Act [50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.], the authorities of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act with respect to the sanctioned country.

“(2) Exception.—Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to urgent humanitarian assistance.


