§ 20308. Reporting requirements(a) Report on status of implementation and assessment of programsNot later than 180 days after October 28, 2009, the Presidential designee shall submit to the relevant committees of Congress a report containing the following information:(1) The status of the implementation of the procedures established for the collection and delivery of marked absentee ballots of absent overseas uniformed services voters under section 20304 of this title, and a detailed description of the specific steps taken towards such implementation for the regularly scheduled general election for Federal office held in November 2010.

(2) An assessment of the effectiveness of the Voting Assistance Officer Program of the Department of Defense, which shall include the following:(A) A thorough and complete assessment of whether the Program, as configured and implemented as of October 28, 2009, is effectively assisting absent uniformed services voters in exercising their right to vote.

(B) An inventory and explanation of any areas of voter assistance in which the Program has failed to accomplish its stated objectives and effectively assist absent uniformed services voters in exercising their right to vote.

(C) As necessary, a detailed plan for the implementation of any new program to replace or supplement voter assistance activities required to be performed under this Act.


(3) A detailed description of the specific steps taken towards the implementation of voter registration assistance for absent uniformed services voters under section 1566a of title 10.


(b) Annual report on effectiveness of activities and utilization of certain proceduresNot later than March 31 of each year, the Presidential designee shall transmit to the President and to the relevant committees of Congress a report containing the following information:(1) An assessment of the effectiveness of activities carried out under section 20305 of this title, including the activities and actions of the Federal Voting Assistance Program of the Department of Defense, a separate assessment of voter registration and participation by absent uniformed services voters, a separate assessment of voter registration and participation by overseas voters who are not members of the uniformed services, and a description of the cooperation between States and the Federal Government in carrying out such section.

(2) A description of the utilization of voter registration assistance under section 1566a of title 10, which shall include the following:(A) A description of the specific programs implemented by each military department of the Armed Forces pursuant to such section.

(B) The number of absent uniformed services voters who utilized voter registration assistance provided under such section.


(3) In the case of a report submitted under this subsection in the year following a year in which a regularly scheduled general election for Federal office is held, a description of the utilization of the procedures for the collection and delivery of marked absentee ballots established pursuant to section 20304 of this title, which shall include the number of marked absentee ballots collected and delivered under such procedures and the number of such ballots which were not delivered by the time of the closing of the polls on the date of the election (and the reasons such ballots were not so delivered).


(c) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Absent overseas uniformed services voterThe term “absent overseas uniformed services voter” has the meaning given such term in section 20304(d) of this title.


(2) Presidential designeeThe term “Presidential designee” means the Presidential designee under section 20301(a) of this title.


(3) Relevant committees of Congress definedThe term “relevant committees of Congress” means—(A) the Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and Rules and Administration of the Senate; and

(B) the Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and House Administration of the House of Representatives.



(Pub. L. 99–410, title I, § 105A, as added Pub. L. 111–84, div. A, title V, § 586, Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2331.)


References in TextThis Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(2)(C), is Pub. L. 99–410, Aug. 28, 1986, 100 Stat. 924, known as the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 1973ff–4a of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.


