§ 1541. Purpose and policy(a) Congressional declarationIt is the purpose of this chapter to fulfill the intent of the framers of the Constitution of the United States and insure that the collective judgment of both the Congress and the President will apply to the introduction of United States Armed Forces into hostilities, or into situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances, and to the continued use of such forces in hostilities or in such situations.


(b) Congressional legislative power under necessary and proper clauseUnder article I, section 8, of the Constitution, it is specifically provided that the Congress shall have the power to make all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution, not only its own powers but also all other powers vested by the Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any department or officer hereof.


(c) Presidential executive power as Commander-in-Chief; limitationThe constitutional powers of the President as Commander-in-Chief to introduce United States Armed Forces into hostilities, or into situations where imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances, are exercised only pursuant to (1) a declaration of war, (2) specific statutory authorization, or (3) a national emergency created by attack upon the United States, its territories or possessions, or its armed forces.


(Pub. L. 93–148, § 2, Nov. 7, 1973, 87 Stat. 555.)

Effective DatePub. L. 93–148, § 10, Nov. 7, 1973, 87 Stat. 559, provided that: “This joint resolution [enacting this chapter] shall take effect on the date of its enactment [Nov. 7, 1973].”


Short TitlePub. L. 93–148, § 1, Nov. 7, 1973, 87 Stat. 555, provided that: “This joint resolution [enacting this chapter] may be cited as the ‘War Powers Resolution’.”


Report on Responsible Redeployment of United States Armed Forces From IraqPub. L. 111–84, div. A, title XII, § 1227, Oct. 28, 2009, 123 Stat. 2525, as amended by Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title XII, § 1233(a)–(e), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4396, 4397, provided that:
“(a) Report Required.—Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 2009], or December 31, 2010, whichever occurs later, and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report concerning the responsible redeployment of United States Armed Forces from Iraq in accordance with the policy announced by the President on February 27, 2009, and the Agreement Between the United States of America and the Republic of Iraq On the Withdrawal of United States Forces From Iraq and the Organization of Their Activities During Their Temporary Presence in Iraq.

“(b) Elements.—The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following elements:“(1) The number of United States military personnel in Iraq by service and component for each month of the preceding 90-day period and an estimate of the personnel levels in Iraq for the 90-day period following submission of the report.

“(2) The number and type of military installations in Iraq occupied by 100 or more United States military personnel and the number of such military installations closed, consolidated, or transferred to the Government of Iraq in the preceding 90-day period.

“(3) An estimate of the number of military vehicles, containers of equipment, tons of ammunition, or other significant items belonging to the Department of Defense removed from Iraq during the preceding 90-day period, an estimate of the remaining amount of such items belonging to the Department of Defense, and an assessment of the likelihood of successfully removing, demilitarizing, or otherwise transferring all items belonging to the Department of Defense from Iraq on or before December 31, 2011.

“(4) An assessment of United States detainee operations and releases. Such assessment should include the total number of detainees held by the United States in Iraq, the number of detainees in each threat level category, the number of detainees who are not nationals of Iraq, the number of detainees transferred to Iraqi authorities, the number of detainees who were released from United States custody and the reasons for their release, and the number of detainees who having been released in the past were recaptured or had their remains identified planning or after carrying out attacks on United States or Coalition forces.

“(5) A listing of the objective and subjective factors utilized by the commander of United States Forces–Iraq, including any changes to that list in the case of an update to the report, to determine risk levels associated with the drawdown of United States Armed Forces, and the process and timing that will be utilized by the commander of United States Forces–Iraq and the Secretary of Defense to assess risk and make recommendations to the President about either continuing the redeployment of United States Armed Forces from Iraq in accordance with the schedule announced by the President or modifying the pace or timing of that redeployment.

“(6) An assessment of progress to transfer responsibility of programs, projects, and activities carried out in Iraq by the Department of Defense to other United States Government departments and agencies, international or nongovernmental entities, or the Government of Iraq. The assessment should include a description of the numbers and categories of programs, projects, and activities for which such other entities have taken responsibility or which have been discontinued by the Department of Defense. The assessment should also include a discussion of any difficulties or barriers in transitioning such programs, projects, and activities and what, if any, solutions have been developed to address such difficulties or barriers.

“(7) An assessment of progress toward the goal of building the minimum essential capabilities of the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior of Iraq, including a description of—“(A) such capabilities both extant and remaining to be developed;

“(B) major equipment necessary to achieve such capabilities;

“(C) the level and type of support provided by the United States to address shortfalls in such capabilities; and

“(D) the level of commitment, both financial and political, made by the Government of Iraq to develop such capabilities, including a discussion of resources used by the Government of Iraq to develop capabilities that the Secretary determines are not minimum essential capabilities for purposes of this paragraph.


“(8) A listing and assessment of the anticipated level and type of support to be provided by United States special operations forces to the Government of Iraq and Iraqi special operations forces during the redeployment of United States conventional forces from Iraq. The assessment should include a listing of anticipated critical support from general purpose forces required by United States special operations forces and Iraqi special operations forces. The assessment should also include combat support, including rotary aircraft and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance assets, combat service support, and contractor support needed through December 31, 2011.


“(c) Secretary of State Comments.—Prior to submitting the report required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall provide a copy of the report to the Secretary of State for review. At the request of the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense shall include an appendix to the report which contains any comments or additional information that the Secretary of State requests.

“(d) Form.—The report required under subsection (a) may include a classified annex.

“(e) Appropriate Congressional Committees.—In this section, the term ‘appropriate congressional committees’ means—“(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and

“(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.


“(f) Termination.—The requirement to submit the report required under subsection (a) shall terminate on September 30, 2012.”




United States Policy on IraqPub. L. 109–163, div. A, title XII, § 1227, Jan. 6, 2006, 119 Stat. 3465, as amended by Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title XII, § 1223(a)(1), (b), Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 373, 374, known as the “United States Policy in Iraq Act”, which required the President to submit reports to Congress on United States policy and military operations in Iraq not later than 90 days after Jan. 6, 2006, and every three months thereafter, until all United States combat brigades had been redeployed from Iraq, and required congressional briefings by senior officials of the Department of Defense subsequent to the submission of each such report, was repealed by Pub. L. 111–383, div. A, title XII, § 1233(f)(1), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4397.

Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002Pub. L. 107–243, Oct. 16, 2002, 116 Stat. 1498, provided that:
“Whereas in 1990 in response to Iraq’s war of aggression against and illegal occupation of Kuwait, the United States forged a coalition of nations to liberate Kuwait and its people in order to defend the national security of the United States and enforce United Nations Security Council resolutions relating to Iraq;
“Whereas after the liberation of Kuwait in 1991, Iraq entered into a United Nations sponsored cease-fire agreement pursuant to which Iraq unequivocally agreed, among other things, to eliminate its nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons programs and the means to deliver and develop them, and to end its support for international terrorism;
“Whereas the efforts of international weapons inspectors, United States intelligence agencies, and Iraqi defectors led to the discovery that Iraq had large stockpiles of chemical weapons and a large scale biological weapons program, and that Iraq had an advanced nuclear weapons development program that was much closer to producing a nuclear weapon than intelligence reporting had previously indicated;
“Whereas Iraq, in direct and flagrant violation of the cease-fire, attempted to thwart the efforts of weapons inspectors to identify and destroy Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction stockpiles and development capabilities, which finally resulted in the withdrawal of inspectors from Iraq on October 31, 1998;
“Whereas in Public Law 105–235 (August 14, 1998) [112 Stat. 1538], Congress concluded that Iraq’s continuing weapons of mass destruction programs threatened vital United States interests and international peace and security, declared Iraq to be in ‘material and unacceptable breach of its international obligations’ and urged the President ‘to take appropriate action, in accordance with the Constitution and relevant laws of the United States, to bring Iraq into compliance with its international obligations’;
“Whereas Iraq both poses a continuing threat to the national security of the United States and international peace and security in the Persian Gulf region and remains in material and unacceptable breach of its international obligations by, among other things, continuing to possess and develop a significant chemical and biological weapons capability, actively seeking a nuclear weapons capability, and supporting and harboring terrorist organizations;
“Whereas Iraq persists in violating resolution [sic] of the United Nations Security Council by continuing to engage in brutal repression of its civilian population thereby threatening international peace and security in the region, by refusing to release, repatriate, or account for non-Iraqi citizens wrongfully detained by Iraq, including an American serviceman, and by failing to return property wrongfully seized by Iraq from Kuwait;
“Whereas the current Iraqi regime has demonstrated its capability and willingness to use weapons of mass destruction against other nations and its own people;
“Whereas the current Iraqi regime has demonstrated its continuing hostility toward, and willingness to attack, the United States, including by attempting in 1993 to assassinate former President Bush and by firing on many thousands of occasions on United States and Coalition Armed Forces engaged in enforcing the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council;
“Whereas members of al Qaida, an organization bearing responsibility for attacks on the United States, its citizens, and interests, including the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, are known to be in Iraq;
“Whereas Iraq continues to aid and harbor other international terrorist organizations, including organizations that threaten the lives and safety of United States citizens;
“Whereas the attacks on the United States of September 11, 2001, underscored the gravity of the threat posed by the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction by international terrorist organizations;
“Whereas Iraq’s demonstrated capability and willingness to use weapons of mass destruction, the risk that the current Iraqi regime will either employ those weapons to launch a surprise attack against the United States or its Armed Forces or provide them to international terrorists who would do so, and the extreme magnitude of harm that would result to the United States and its citizens from such an attack, combine to justify action by the United States to defend itself;
“Whereas United Nations Security Council Resolution 678 (1990) authorizes the use of all necessary means to enforce United Nations Security Council Resolution 660 (1990) and subsequent relevant resolutions and to compel Iraq to cease certain activities that threaten international peace and security, including the development of weapons of mass destruction and refusal or obstruction of United Nations weapons inspections in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 687 (1991), repression of its civilian population in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 688 (1991), and threatening its neighbors or United Nations operations in Iraq in violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 949 (1994);
“Whereas in the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution (Public Law 102–1) [set out as a note below], Congress has authorized the President ‘to use United States Armed Forces pursuant to United Nations Security Council Resolution 678 (1990) in order to achieve implementation of Security Council Resolution 660, 661, 662, 664, 665, 666, 667, 669, 670, 674, and 677’;
“Whereas in December 1991, Congress expressed its sense that it ‘supports the use of all necessary means to achieve the goals of United Nations Security Council Resolution 687 as being consistent with the Authorization of Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution (Public Law 102–1),’ that Iraq’s repression of its civilian population violates United Nations Security Council Resolution 688 and ‘constitutes a continuing threat to the peace, security, and stability of the Persian Gulf region,’ and that Congress, ‘supports the use of all necessary means to achieve the goals of United Nations Security Council Resolution 688’;
“Whereas the Iraq Liberation Act of 1998 (Public Law 105–338) [former 22 U.S.C. 2151 note] expressed the sense of Congress that it should be the policy of the United States to support efforts to remove from power the current Iraqi regime and promote the emergence of a democratic government to replace that regime;
“Whereas on September 12, 2002, President Bush committed the United States to ‘work with the United Nations Security Council to meet our common challenge’ posed by Iraq and to ‘work for the necessary resolutions,’ while also making clear that ‘the Security Council resolutions will be enforced, and the just demands of peace and security will be met, or action will be unavoidable’;
“Whereas the United States is determined to prosecute the war on terrorism and Iraq’s ongoing support for international terrorist groups combined with its development of weapons of mass destruction in direct violation of its obligations under the 1991 cease-fire and other United Nations Security Council resolutions make clear that it is in the national security interests of the United States and in furtherance of the war on terrorism that all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions be enforced, including through the use of force if necessary;
“Whereas Congress has taken steps to pursue vigorously the war on terrorism through the provision of authorities and funding requested by the President to take the necessary actions against international terrorists and terrorist organizations, including those nations, organizations, or persons who planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or harbored such persons or organizations;
“Whereas the President and Congress are determined to continue to take all appropriate actions against international terrorists and terrorist organizations, including those nations, organizations, or persons who planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or harbored such persons or organizations;
“Whereas the President has authority under the Constitution to take action in order to deter and prevent acts of international terrorism against the United States, as Congress recognized in the joint resolution on Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107–40) [set out as a note below]; and
“Whereas it is in the national security interests of the United States to restore international peace and security to the Persian Gulf region: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
“SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
“This joint resolution may be cited as the ‘Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002’.
“SEC. 2. SUPPORT FOR UNITED STATES DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS.
“The Congress of the United States supports the efforts by the President to—
“(1) strictly enforce through the United Nations Security Council all relevant Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq and encourages him in those efforts; and
“(2) obtain prompt and decisive action by the Security Council to ensure that Iraq abandons its strategy of delay, evasion and noncompliance and promptly and strictly complies with all relevant Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq.
“SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES.
“(a) Authorization.—The President is authorized to use the Armed Forces of the United States as he determines to be necessary and appropriate in order to—
“(1) defend the national security of the United States against the continuing threat posed by Iraq; and
“(2) enforce all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq.
“(b) Presidential Determination.—In connection with the exercise of the authority granted in subsection (a) to use force the President shall, prior to such exercise or as soon thereafter as may be feasible, but no later than 48 hours after exercising such authority, make available to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate his determination that—
“(1) reliance by the United States on further diplomatic or other peaceful means alone either (A) will not adequately protect the national security of the United States against the continuing threat posed by Iraq or (B) is not likely to lead to enforcement of all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions regarding Iraq; and
“(2) acting pursuant to this joint resolution is consistent with the United States and other countries continuing to take the necessary actions against international terrorist and terrorist organizations, including those nations, organizations, or persons who planned, authorized, committed or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001.
“(c) War Powers Resolution Requirements.—
“(1) Specific statutory authorization.—Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution [50 U.S.C. 1547(a)(1)], the Congress declares that this section is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution [50 U.S.C. 1544(b)].
“(2) Applicability of other requirements.—Nothing in this joint resolution supersedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution [50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.].
“SEC. 4. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
“(a) Reports.—The President shall, at least once every 60 days, submit to the Congress a report on matters relevant to this joint resolution, including actions taken pursuant to the exercise of authority granted in section 3 and the status of planning for efforts that are expected to be required after such actions are completed, including those actions described in section 7 of the Iraq Liberation Act of 1998 (Public Law 105–338) [former 22 U.S.C. 2151 note].
“(b) Single Consolidated Report.—To the extent that the submission of any report described in subsection (a) coincides with the submission of any other report on matters relevant to this joint resolution otherwise required to be submitted to Congress pursuant to the reporting requirements of the War Powers Resolution (Public Law 93–148) [50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.], all such reports may be submitted as a single consolidated report to the Congress.
“(c) Rule of Construction.—To the extent that the information required by section 3 of the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution (Public Law 102–1) [set out in a note below] is included in the report required by this section, such report shall be considered as meeting the requirements of section 3 of such resolution.”



Authorization for Use of Military Force Against September 11 TerroristsPub. L. 107–40, Sept. 18, 2001, 115 Stat. 224, provided that:
“Whereas, on September 11, 2001, acts of treacherous violence were committed against the United States and its citizens; and
“Whereas, such acts render it both necessary and appropriate that the United States exercise its rights to self-defense and to protect United States citizens both at home and abroad; and
“Whereas, in light of the threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States posed by these grave acts of violence; and
“Whereas, such acts continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States; and
“Whereas, the President has authority under the Constitution to take action to deter and prevent acts of international terrorism against the United States: Now, therefore, be it
“Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
“SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
“This joint resolution may be cited as the ‘Authorization for Use of Military Force’.
“SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES.
“(a) In General.—That the President is authorized to use all necessary and appropriate force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or harbored such organizations or persons, in order to prevent any future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such nations, organizations or persons.
“(b) War Powers Resolution Requirements.—
“(1) Specific statutory authorization.—Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution [50 U.S.C. 1547(a)(1)], the Congress declares that this section is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution [50 U.S.C. 1544(b)].
“(2) Applicability of other requirements.—Nothing in this resolution supercedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution [50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.].”



Limitation on Deployment of Armed Forces in Haiti During Fiscal Year 2000 and Congressional Notice of Deployments to HaitiPub. L. 106–65, div. A, title XII, § 1232, Oct. 5, 1999, 113 Stat. 788, as amended by Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title XII, § 1222, Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1253, provided that:
“(a) Limitation on Deployment.—No funds available to the Department of Defense during fiscal year 2000 may be expended after May 31, 2000, for the continuous deployment of United States Armed Forces in Haiti pursuant to the Department of Defense operation designated as Operation Uphold Democracy.

“[(b) Repealed. Pub. L. 107–107, div. A, title XII, § 1222, Dec. 28, 2001, 115 Stat. 1253.]”




Involvement of Armed Forces in HaitiPub. L. 103–423, Oct. 25, 1994, 108 Stat. 4358, provided that:
“SECTION 1. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES OPERATIONS IN HAITI.“It is the sense of Congress that—“(a) the men and women of the United States Armed Forces in Haiti who are performing with professional excellence and dedicated patriotism are to be commended;

“(b) the President should have sought and welcomed Congressional approval before deploying United States Armed Forces to Haiti;

“(c) the departure from power of the de facto authorities in Haiti, and Haitian efforts to achieve national reconciliation, democracy and the rule of law are in the best interests of the Haitian people;

“(d) the President’s lifting of the unilateral economic sanctions on Haiti, and his efforts to bring about the lifting of economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations are appropriate; and

“(e) Congress supports a prompt and orderly withdrawal of all United States Armed Forces from Haiti as soon as possible.

