§ 3307. Communications with the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives(a) Requests of committeesThe Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, the Director of a national intelligence center, or the head of any element of the intelligence community shall, not later than 45 days after receiving a written request from the Chair or ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate or the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives for any existing intelligence assessment, report, estimate, or legal opinion relating to matters within the jurisdiction of such Committee, make available to such committee such assessment, report, estimate, or legal opinion, as the case may be.


(b) Assertion of privilege(1) In generalIn response to a request covered by subsection (a), the Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, the Director of a national intelligence center, or the head of any element of the intelligence community shall provide to the Committee making such request the document or information covered by such request unless the President determines that such document or information shall not be provided because the President is asserting a privilege pursuant to the Constitution of the United States.


(2) Submission to CongressThe White House Counsel shall submit to Congress in writing any assertion by the President under paragraph (1) of a privilege pursuant to the Constitution.



(c) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Intelligence communityThe term “intelligence community” has the meaning given the term in section 3003(4) of this title.


(2) Intelligence assessmentThe term “intelligence assessment” means an intelligence-related analytical study of a subject of policy significance and does not include building-block papers, research projects, and reference aids.


(3) Intelligence estimateThe term “intelligence estimate” means an appraisal of available intelligence relating to a specific situation or condition with a view to determining the courses of action open to an enemy or potential enemy and the probable order of adoption of such courses of action.



(Pub. L. 110–181, div. A, title X, § 1079, Jan. 28, 2008, 122 Stat. 334.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 413c of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.


