§ 30305. Outreach program(a) Establishment.—The Administration shall competitively select an organization to partner with Administration centers, aerospace contractors, and academic institutions to carry out a program to help promote the competitiveness of small, minority-owned, and women-owned businesses in communities across the United States through enhanced insight into the technologies of the Administration’s space and aeronautics programs. The program shall support the mission of the Administration’s Innovative Partnerships Program with its emphasis on joint partnerships with industry, academia, government agencies, and national laboratories.

(b) Program Structure.—In carrying out the program described in subsection (a), the organization shall support the mission of the Administration’s Innovative Partnerships Program by undertaking the following activities:(1) Facilitating enhanced insight.—Facilitating the enhanced insight of the private sector into the Administration’s technologies in order to increase the competitiveness of the private sector in producing viable commercial products.

(2) Creating network.—Creating a network of academic institutions, aerospace contractors, and Administration centers that will commit to donating appropriate technical assistance to small businesses, giving preference to socially and economically disadvantaged small business concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, and HUBZone small business concerns. This paragraph shall not apply to any contracting actions entered into or taken by the Administration.

(3) Creating network of economic development organizations.—Creating a network of economic development organizations to increase the awareness and enhance the effectiveness of the program nationwide.


(c) Report.—Not later than one year after October 15, 2008, and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall submit a report to the Committee on Science and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate describing the efforts and accomplishments of the program established under subsection (a) in support of the Administration’s Innovative Partnerships Program. As part of the report, the Administrator shall provide—(1) data on the number of small businesses receiving assistance, jobs created and retained, and volunteer hours donated by the Administration, contractors, and academic institutions nationwide;

(2) an estimate of the total dollar value of the economic impact made by small businesses that received technical assistance through the program; and

(3) an accounting of the use of funds appropriated for the program.


(Pub. L. 111–314, § 3, Dec. 18, 2010, 124 Stat. 3364.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


3030542 U.S.C. 17824.Pub. L. 110–422, title XI, § 1107, Oct. 15, 2008, 122 Stat. 4810.


In subsection (c), in the matter before paragraph (1), the date “October 15, 2008” is substituted for “the date of enactment of this Act” to reflect the date of enactment of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2008.


Change of Name
Committee on Science and Technology of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Jan. 5, 2011.


