§ 1525. Assistance for facilities subject to inspection under Chemical Weapons Convention(a) Assistance authorizedUpon the request of the owner or operator of a facility that is subject to a routine inspection or a challenge inspection under the Chemical Weapons Convention, the Secretary of Defense may provide technical assistance to that owner or operator related to compliance of that facility with the Convention. Any such assistance shall be provided through the On-Site Inspection Agency of the Department of Defense.


(b) Reimbursement requirementThe Secretary may provide assistance under subsection (a) of this section only to the extent that the Secretary determines that the Department of Defense will be reimbursed for costs incurred in providing the assistance. The United States National Authority may provide such reimbursement from amounts available to it. Any such reimbursement shall be credited to amounts available for the On-Site Inspection Agency.


(c) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) The terms “Chemical Weapons Convention” and “Convention” mean the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, ratified by the United States on April 25, 1997, and entered into force on April 29, 1997.

(2) The term “facility that is subject to a routine inspection” means a declared facility, as defined in paragraph 15 of part X of the Annex on Implementation and Verification of the Convention.

(3) The term “challenge inspection” means an inspection conducted under Article IX of the Convention.

(4) The term “United States National Authority” means the United States National Authority established or designated pursuant to Article VII, paragraph 4, of the Convention.


(Pub. L. 105–85, div. A, title XIII, § 1303, Nov. 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 1951.)

Codification
Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998, and not as part of Pub. L. 91–121, title IV, § 409, Nov. 19, 1969, 83 Stat. 209, which comprises this chapter.


