§ 3608. Language training and cryptologic linguist reserve programs(a) ProgramsThe Director of the National Security Agency shall arrange for, and shall prescribe regulations concerning, language and language-related training programs for military and civilian cryptologic personnel. In establishing programs under this section for language and language-related training, the Director—(1) may provide for the training and instruction to be furnished, including functional and geographic area specializations;

(2) may arrange for training and instruction through other Government agencies and, in any case in which appropriate training or instruction is unavailable through Government facilities, through nongovernmental facilities that furnish training and instruction useful in the fields of language and foreign affairs;

(3) may support programs that furnish necessary language and language-related skills, including, in any case in which appropriate programs are unavailable at Government facilities, support through contracts, grants, or cooperation with nongovernmental educational institutions; and

(4) may obtain by appointment or contract the services of individuals to serve as language instructors, linguists, or special language project personnel.


(b) Incentives(1) In order to maintain necessary capability in foreign language skills and related abilities needed by the National Security Agency, the Director, without regard to subchapter IV of chapter 55 of title 5, may provide special monetary or other incentives to encourage civilian cryptologic personnel of the Agency to acquire or retain proficiency in foreign languages or special related abilities needed by the Agency.

(2) In order to provide linguistic training and support for cryptologic personnel, the Director—(A) may pay all or part of the tuition and other expenses related to the training of personnel who are assigned or detailed for language and language-related training, orientation, or instruction; and

(B) may pay benefits and allowances to civilian personnel in accordance with chapters 57 and 59 of title 5, and to military personnel in accordance with chapter 7 of title 37, and applicable provisions of title 10, when such personnel are assigned to training at sites away from their designated duty station.



(c) Cryptologic linguist reserve(1) To the extent not inconsistent, in the opinion of the Secretary of Defense, with the operation of military cryptologic reserve units and in order to maintain necessary capability in foreign language skills and related abilities needed by the National Security Agency, the Director may establish a cryptologic linguist reserve. The cryptologic linguist reserve may consist of former or retired civilian or military cryptologic personnel of the National Security Agency and of other qualified individuals, as determined by the Director of the Agency. Each member of the cryptologic linguist reserve shall agree that, during any period of emergency (as determined by the Director), the member shall return to active civilian status with the National Security Agency and shall perform such linguistic or linguistic-related duties as the Director may assign.

(2) In order to attract individuals to become members of the cryptologic linguist reserve, the Director, without regard to subchapter IV of chapter 55 of title 5, may provide special monetary incentives to individuals eligible to become members of the reserve who agree to become members of the cryptologic linguist reserve and to acquire or retain proficiency in foreign languages or special related abilities.

(3) In order to provide training and support for members of the cryptologic linguist reserve, the Director—(A) may pay all or part of the tuition and other expenses related to the training of individuals in the cryptologic linguist reserve who are assigned or detailed for language and language-related training, orientation, or instruction; and

(B) may pay benefits and allowances in accordance with chapters 57 and 59 of title 5 to individuals in the cryptologic linguist reserve who are assigned to training at sites away from their homes or regular places of business.



(d) Training agreements(1) The Director, before providing training under this section to any individual, may obtain an agreement with that individual that—(A) in the case of current employees, pertains to continuation of service of the employee, and repayment of the expenses of such training for failure to fulfill the agreement, consistent with the provisions of section 4108 of title 5; and

(B) in the case of individuals accepted for membership in the cryptologic linguist reserve, pertains to return to service when requested, and repayment of the expenses of such training for failure to fulfill the agreement, consistent with the provisions of section 4108 of title 5.


(2) The Director, under regulations prescribed under this section, may waive, in whole or in part, a right of recovery under an agreement made under this subsection if it is shown that the recovery would be against equity and good conscience or against the public interest.


(e) Orientation and language training for family members(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Director may provide to family members of military and civilian cryptologic personnel assigned to representational duties outside the United States, in anticipation of the assignment of such personnel outside the United States or while outside the United States, appropriate orientation and language training that is directly related to the assignment abroad.

(2) Language training under paragraph (1) may not be provided to any individual through payment of the expenses of tuition or other cost of instruction at a non-Government educational institution unless appropriate instruction is not available at a Government facility.


(f) Waiver chapter 41 of title 5The Director may waive the applicability of any provision of chapter 41 of title 5 to any provision of this section if he finds that such waiver is important to the performance of cryptologic functions.


(g) Authority subject to availability of appropriated fundsThe authority of the Director to enter into contracts or to make grants under this section is effective for any fiscal year only to the extent that appropriated funds are available for such purpose.


(h) RegulationsRegulations issued pursuant to this section shall be submitted to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate before such regulations take effect.


(i) Travel, transportation, storage, and subsistence expensesThe Director of the National Security Agency, on behalf of the Secretary of Defense, may, without regard to section 4109(a)(2)(B) of title 5, pay travel, transportation, storage, and subsistence expenses under chapter 57 of such title to civilian and military personnel of the Department of Defense who are assigned to duty outside the United States for a period of one year or longer which involves cryptologic training, language training, or related disciplines.


(Pub. L. 86–36, § 10, as added Pub. L. 96–450, title IV, § 402(a)(1), Oct. 14, 1980, 94 Stat. 1978; amended Pub. L. 97–89, title VI, § 602, Dec. 4, 1981, 95 Stat. 1154.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified in a note under section 402 of this title prior to editorial reclassification as this section.

Amendments1981—Pub. L. 97–89 added subsecs. (a) to (h) and redesignated existing provisions as subsec. (i).

Effective Date of 1981 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 97–89 effective Oct. 1, 1981, see section 806 of Pub. L. 97–89, set out as an Effective Date note under section 1621 of Title 10, Armed Forces.


