§ 3039. Assistance to United States law enforcement agencies(a) Authority to provide assistanceSubject to subsection (b) of this section, elements of the intelligence community may, upon the request of a United States law enforcement agency, collect information outside the United States about individuals who are not United States persons. Such elements may collect such information notwithstanding that the law enforcement agency intends to use the information collected for purposes of a law enforcement investigation or counterintelligence investigation.


(b) Limitation on assistance by elements of Department of Defense(1) With respect to elements within the Department of Defense, the authority in subsection (a) of this section applies only to the following:(A) The National Security Agency.

(B) The National Reconnaissance Office.

(C) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.

(D) The Defense Intelligence Agency.


(2) Assistance provided under this section by elements of the Department of Defense may not include the direct participation of a member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps in an arrest or similar activity.

(3) Assistance may not be provided under this section by an element of the Department of Defense if the provision of such assistance will adversely affect the military preparedness of the United States.

(4) The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations governing the exercise of authority under this section by elements of the Department of Defense, including regulations relating to the protection of sources and methods in the exercise of such authority.


(c) DefinitionsFor purposes of subsection (a) of this section:(1) The term “United States law enforcement agency” means any department or agency of the Federal Government that the Attorney General designates as law enforcement agency for purposes of this section.

(2) The term “United States person” means the following:(A) A United States citizen.

(B) An alien known by the intelligence agency concerned to be a permanent resident alien.

(C) An unincorporated association substantially composed of United States citizens or permanent resident aliens.

(D) A corporation incorporated in the United States, except for a corporation directed and controlled by a foreign government or governments.



(July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title I, § 105A, as added Pub. L. 104–293, title VIII, § 814(a), Oct. 11, 1996, 110 Stat. 3483; amended Pub. L. 108–136, div. A, title IX, § 921(e)(3), Nov. 24, 2003, 117 Stat. 1569.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 403–5a of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Amendments2003—Subsec. (b)(1)(C). Pub. L. 108–136 substituted “National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency” for “National Imagery and Mapping Agency”.


