§ 3224. Intelligence officer training program(a) Programs(1) The Director of National Intelligence may carry out grant programs in accordance with subsections (b) and (c) to enhance the recruitment and retention of an ethnically and culturally diverse intelligence community workforce with capabilities critical to the national security interests of the United States.

(2) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Director shall identify the skills necessary to meet current or emergent needs of the intelligence community and the educational disciplines that will provide individuals with such skills.


(b) Institutional grant program(1) The Director may provide grants to institutions of higher education to support the establishment or continued development of programs of study in educational disciplines identified under subsection (a)(2).

(2) A grant provided under paragraph (1) may, with respect to the educational disciplines identified under subsection (a)(2), be used for the following purposes:(A) Curriculum or program development.

(B) Faculty development.

(C) Laboratory equipment or improvements.

(D) Faculty research.



(c) Grant program for historically black colleges and universities(1) The Director may provide grants to historically black colleges and universities to provide programs of study in educational disciplines identified under subsection (a)(2) or described in paragraph (2).

(2) A grant provided under paragraph (1) may be used to provide programs of study in the following educational disciplines:(A) Intermediate and advanced foreign languages deemed in the immediate interest of the intelligence community, including Farsi, Pashto, Middle Eastern, African, and South Asian dialects.

(B) Study abroad programs and cultural immersion programs.



(d) ApplicationAn institution of higher education seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application describing the proposed use of the grant at such time and in such manner as the Director may require.


(e) ReportsAn institution of higher education that receives a grant under this section shall submit to the Director regular reports regarding the use of such grant, including—(1) a description of the benefits to students who participate in the course of study funded by such grant;

(2) a description of the results and accomplishments related to such course of study; and

(3) any other information that the Director may require.


(f) RegulationsThe Director shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.


(g) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) The term “Director” means the Director of National Intelligence.

(2) Historically black college and university.—The term “historically black college and university” has the meaning given the term “part B institution” in section 1061 of title 20.

(3) The term “institution of higher education” has the meaning given the term in section 1001 of title 20.

(4) Study abroad program.—The term “study abroad program” means a program of study that—(A) takes places 11 So in original. Probably should be “takes place”. outside the geographical boundaries of the United States;

(B) focuses on areas of the world that are critical to the national security interests of the United States and are generally underrepresented in study abroad programs at institutions of higher education, including Africa, Asia, Central and Eastern Europe, Eurasia, Latin America, and the Middle East; and

(C) is a credit or noncredit program.



(July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title X, § 1024, as added Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 313(a), Oct. 7, 2010, 124 Stat. 2665; amended Pub. L. 112–18, title III, § 304, June 8, 2011, 125 Stat. 226.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 441p of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Amendments2011—Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 112–18, § 304(1), substituted “subsections (b) and (c)” for “subsection (b)”.
Subsecs. (c) to (f). Pub. L. 112–18, § 304(2), (3), added subsec. (c) and redesignated former subsecs. (c) to (e) as (d) to (f), respectively. Former subsec. (f) redesignated (g).
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 112–18, § 304(2), redesignated subsec. (f) as (g).
Subsec. (g)(2) to (4). Pub. L. 112–18, § 304(4), added pars. (2) and (4) and redesignated former par. (2) as (3).


