§ 561. Taxes respecting personal property, money, credits, and real property(a) ApplicationThis section applies in any case in which a tax or assessment, whether general or special (other than a tax on personal income), falls due and remains unpaid before or during a period of military service with respect to a servicemember’s—(1) personal property (including motor vehicles); or

(2) real property occupied for dwelling, professional, business, or agricultural purposes by a servicemember or the servicemember’s dependents or employees—(A) before the servicemember’s entry into military service; and

(B) during the time the tax or assessment remains unpaid.



(b) Sale of property(1) Limitation on sale of property to enforce tax assessmentProperty described in subsection (a) may not be sold to enforce the collection of such tax or assessment except by court order and upon the determination by the court that military service does not materially affect the servicemember’s ability to pay the unpaid tax or assessment.


(2) Stay of court proceedingsA court may stay a proceeding to enforce the collection of such tax or assessment, or sale of such property, during a period of military service of the servicemember and for a period not more than 180 days after the termination of, or release of the servicemember from, military service.



(c) RedemptionWhen property described in subsection (a) is sold or forfeited to enforce the collection of a tax or assessment, a servicemember shall have the right to redeem or commence an action to redeem the servicemember’s property during the period of military service or within 180 days after termination of or release from military service. This subsection may not be construed to shorten any period provided by the law of a State (including any political subdivision of a State) for redemption.


(d) Interest on tax or assessmentWhenever a servicemember does not pay a tax or assessment on property described in subsection (a) when due, the amount of the tax or assessment due and unpaid shall bear interest until paid at the rate of 6 percent per year. An additional penalty or interest shall not be incurred by reason of nonpayment. A lien for such unpaid tax or assessment may include interest under this subsection.


(e) Joint ownership applicationThis section applies to all forms of property described in subsection (a) owned individually by a servicemember or jointly by a servicemember and a dependent or dependents.


(Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888, title V, § 501, as added Pub. L. 108–189, § 1, Dec. 19, 2003, 117 Stat. 2854.)

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 561, act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888, art. V, § 501, 54 Stat. 1187, related to rights in public lands and grazing lands, prior to the general amendment of this Act by Pub. L. 108–189. See section 562 of this Appendix.


