§ 3330. Reports to the intelligence community on penetrations of networks and information systems of certain contractors(a) Procedures for reporting penetrationsThe Director of National Intelligence shall establish procedures that require each cleared intelligence contractor to report to an element of the intelligence community designated by the Director for purposes of such procedures when a network or information system of such contractor that meets the criteria established pursuant to subsection (b) is successfully penetrated.


(b) Networks and information systems subject to reportingThe Director of National Intelligence shall, in consultation with appropriate officials, establish criteria for covered networks to be subject to the procedures for reporting system penetrations under subsection (a).


(c) Procedure requirements(1) Rapid reportingThe procedures established pursuant to subsection (a) shall require each cleared intelligence contractor to rapidly report to an element of the intelligence community designated pursuant to subsection (a) of each successful penetration of the network or information systems of such contractor that meet the criteria established pursuant to subsection (b). Each such report shall include the following:(A) A description of the technique or method used in such penetration.

(B) A sample of the malicious software, if discovered and isolated by the contractor, involved in such penetration.

(C) A summary of information created by or for such element in connection with any program of such element that has been potentially compromised due to such penetration.


(2) Access to equipment and information by intelligence community personnelThe procedures established pursuant to subsection (a) shall—(A) include mechanisms for intelligence community personnel to, upon request, obtain access to equipment or information of a cleared intelligence contractor necessary to conduct forensic analysis in addition to any analysis conducted by such contractor;

(B) provide that a cleared intelligence contractor is only required to provide access to equipment or information as described in subparagraph (A) to determine whether information created by or for an element of the intelligence community in connection with any intelligence community program was successfully exfiltrated from a network or information system of such contractor and, if so, what information was exfiltrated; and

(C) provide for the reasonable protection of trade secrets, commercial or financial information, and information that can be used to identify a specific person (other than the name of the suspected perpetrator of the penetration).


(3) Limitation on dissemination of certain informationThe procedures established pursuant to subsection (a) shall prohibit the dissemination outside the intelligence community of information obtained or derived through such procedures that is not created by or for the intelligence community except—(A) with the approval of the contractor providing such information;

(B) to the congressional intelligence committees or the Subcommittees on Defense of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate for such committees and such Subcommittees to perform oversight; or

(C) to law enforcement agencies to investigate a penetration reported under this section.



(d) Issuance of procedures and establishment of criteria(1) In generalNot later than 90 days after July 7, 2014, the Director of National Intelligence shall establish the procedures required under subsection (a) and the criteria required under subsection (b).


(2) Applicability dateThe requirements of this section shall apply on the date on which the Director of National Intelligence establishes the procedures required under this section.



(e) Coordination with the Secretary of Defense to prevent duplicate reportingNot later than 180 days after July 7, 2014, the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of Defense shall establish procedures to permit a contractor that is a cleared intelligence contractor and a cleared defense contractor under section 941 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112–239; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) to submit a single report that satisfies the requirements of this section and such section 941 for an incident of penetration of network or information system.


(f) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) Cleared intelligence contractorThe term “cleared intelligence contractor” means a private entity granted clearance by the Director of National Intelligence or the head of an element of the intelligence community to access, receive, or store classified information for the purpose of bidding for a contract or conducting activities in support of any program of an element of the intelligence community.


(2) Covered networkThe term “covered network” means a network or information system of a cleared intelligence contractor that contains or processes information created by or for an element of the intelligence community with respect to which such contractor is required to apply enhanced protection.



(g) Savings clausesNothing in this section shall be construed to alter or limit any otherwise authorized access by government personnel to networks or information systems owned or operated by a contractor that processes or stores government data.


(Pub. L. 113–126, title III, § 325, July 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 1402.)


References in TextSection 941 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, referred to in subsec. (e), is section 941 of Pub. L. 112–239, Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1889, which is set out as a note under section 2224 of Title 10, Armed Forces.


Definitions
For definitions of “intelligence community” and “congressional intelligence committees”, referred to in text, see section 2 of Pub. L. 113–126, set out as a note under section 3003 of this title.


