§ 20111. National Aeronautics and Space Administration(a) Establishment and Appointment of Administrator.—There is established the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The Administration shall be headed by an Administrator, who shall be appointed from civilian life by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Under the supervision and direction of the President, the Administrator shall be responsible for the exercise of all powers and the discharge of all duties of the Administration and shall have authority and control over all personnel and activities thereof.

(b) Deputy Administrator.—There shall be in the Administration a Deputy Administrator, who shall be appointed from civilian life by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Deputy Administrator shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the Administrator may prescribe. The Deputy Administrator shall act for, and exercise the powers of, the Administrator during the Administrator’s absence or disability.

(c) Restriction on Other Business or Employment.—The Administrator and the Deputy Administrator shall not engage in any other business, vocation, or employment while serving as such.

(Pub. L. 111–314, § 3, Dec. 18, 2010, 124 Stat. 3332.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


2011142 U.S.C. 2472.Pub. L. 85–568, title II, § 202, July 29, 1958, 72 Stat. 429; Pub. L. 88–426, title III, § 305(12), Aug. 14, 1964, 78 Stat. 423.



Users’ Advisory GroupPub. L. 101–611, title I, § 121, Nov. 16, 1990, 104 Stat. 3204, provided that:
“(a) Establishment.—(1) The National Space Council shall establish a Users’ Advisory Group composed of non-Federal representatives of industries and other persons involved in aeronautical and space activities.

“(2) The Vice President shall name a chairman of the Users’ Advisory Group.

“(3) The National Space Council shall from time to time, but not less than once a year, meet with the Users’ Advisory Group.

“(4) The function of the Users’ Advisory Group shall be to ensure that the interests of industries and other non-Federal entities involved in space activities, including in particular commercial entities, are adequately represented in the National Space Council.

“(5) The Users’ Advisory Group may be assisted by personnel detailed to the National Space Council.


“(b) Exemption.—The Users’ Advisory Group shall not be subject to section 14(a)(2) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act [5 U.S.C. App.].”




National Space CouncilPub. L. 101–328, § 3(a), July 8, 1990, 104 Stat. 308, provided that: “Not more than six individuals may be employed by the National Space Council without regard to any provision of law regulating the employment or compensation of persons in the Government service, at rates not to exceed the rate of pay for level VI of the Senior Executive Schedule as provided pursuant to section 5382 of title 5, United States Code.”

Pub. L. 101–328, § 4, July 8, 1990, 104 Stat. 308, provided that: “The National Space Council may, for purposes of carrying out its functions, employ experts and consultants in accordance with section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and may compensate individuals so employed for each day they are involved in a business of the National Space Council (including traveltime) at rates not in excess of the daily equivalent of the maximum rate of pay for grade GS–18 as provided pursuant to section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.”

[References in laws to the rates of pay for GS–16, 17, or 18, or to maximum rates of pay under the General Schedule, to be considered references to rates payable under specified sections of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees, see section 529 [title I, § 101(c)(1)] of Pub. L. 101–509, set out in a note under section 5376 of Title 5.]
Pub. L. 100–685, title V, § 501, Nov. 17, 1988, 102 Stat. 4102, provided that:
“(a) Effective February 1, 1989, there is established in the Executive Office of the President the National Space Council, which shall be chaired by the Vice President.

“(b) By March 1, 1989, the President shall submit to the Congress a report that outlines the composition and functions of the National Space Council.

“(c) The Council may employ a staff of not more than seven persons, which is to be headed by a civilian executive secretary, who shall be appointed by the President.”





Ex. Ord. No. 10849. Establishment of Seal for National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Ex. Ord. No. 10849, Nov. 27, 1959, 24 F.R. 9559, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 10942, May 19, 1961, 26 F.R. 4419, provided:
WHEREAS the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration has caused to be made, and has recommended that I approve, a seal for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the design of which accompanies and is hereby made a part of this order, and which is described as follows:
On a disc of the blue sky strewn with white stars, to dexter a larger yellow sphere bearing a red flight symbol apex in upper sinister and wings enveloping and casting a brown shadow upon the sphere, all partially encircled with a horizontal white orbit, in sinister a small light-blue sphere; circumscribing the disc a white band edged gold inscribed “National Aeronautics and Space Administration U.S.A.” in red letters.

AND WHEREAS it appears that such seal is of suitable design and appropriate for establishment as the official seal of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration:
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, I hereby approve such seal as the official seal of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.


Ex. Ord. No. 12675. Establishing the National Space Council
Ex. Ord. No. 12675, Apr. 20, 1989, 54 F.R. 17691, as amended by Ex. Ord. No. 12712, Apr. 26, 1990, 55 F.R. 18095; Ex. Ord. No. 12869, § 4(f), Sept. 30, 1993, 58 F.R. 51752, provided:
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, and in order to provide a coordinated process for developing a national space policy and strategy and for monitoring its implementation, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment and Composition of the National Space Council.
(a) There is established the National Space Council (“the Council”).
(b) The Council shall be composed of the following members:
(1) The Vice President, who shall be Chairman of the Council;
(2) The Secretary of State;
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury;
(4) The Secretary of Defense;
(5) The Secretary of Commerce;
(6) The Secretary of Transportation;
(7) The Secretary of Energy;
(8) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
(9) The Chief of Staff to the President;
(10) The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
(11) The Assistant to the President for Science and Technology;
(12) The Director of Central Intelligence; and
(13) The Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
(c) The Chairman shall, from time to time, invite the following to participate in meetings of the Council:
(1) The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and
(2) The heads of other executive departments and agencies and other senior officials in the Executive Office of the President.
Sec. 2. Functions of the Council. (a) The Council shall advise and assist the President on national space policy and strategy, and perform such other duties as the President may from time to time prescribe.
(b) In addition, the Council is directed to:
(1) review United States Government space policy, including long-range goals, and develop a strategy for national space activities;
(2) develop recommendations for the President on space policy and space-related issues;
(3) monitor and coordinate implementation of the objectives of the President’s national space policy by executive departments and agencies; and
(4) foster close coordination, cooperation, and technology and information exchange among the civil, national security, and commercial space sectors, and facilitate resolution of differences concerning major space and space-related policy issues.
(c) The creation and operation of the Council shall not interfere with existing lines of authority and responsibilities in the departments and agencies.
Sec. 3. Responsibilities of the Chairman. (a) The Chairman shall serve as the President’s principal advisor on national space policy and strategy.
(b) The Chairman shall, in consultation with the members of the Council, establish procedures for the Council and establish the agenda for Council activities.
(c) The Chairman shall report to the President on the activities and recommendations of the Council. The Chairman shall advise the Council as appropriate regarding the President’s directions with respect to the Council’s activities and national space policy generally.
(d) The Chairman shall authorize the establishment of such committees of the Council, including an executive committee, and of such working groups, composed of senior designees of the Council members and of other officials invited to participate in Council meetings, as he deems necessary or appropriate for the efficient conduct of Council functions.
Sec. 4. National Space Policy Planning Process. (a) The Council will establish a process for developing and monitoring the implementation of national space policy and strategy.
(b) To implement this process, each agency represented on the Council shall provide such information regarding its current and planned space activities as the Chairman shall request.
(c) The head of each executive department and agency shall ensure that its space-related activities conform to national space policy and strategy.
Sec. 5. [Revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 12869, § 4(f), Sept. 30, 1993, 58 F.R. 51752.]
Sec. 6. Microgravity Research Board. Section 1(c) of Executive Order No. 12660 is amended by deleting “Economic Policy Council” and inserting in lieu thereof “National Space Council.”
Sec. 7. Administrative Provisions. (a) The Office of Administration in the Executive Office of the President shall provide the Council with such administrative support on a reimbursable basis as may be necessary for the performance of the functions of the Council.
(b) The President shall appoint an Executive Secretary who shall appoint such staff as may be necessary to assist in the performance of the Council’s functions.
(c) All Federal departments, agencies, and interagency councils and committees having an impact on space policy shall extend, as appropriate, such cooperation and assistance to the Council as is necessary to carry out its responsibilities under this order.
(d) The head of each agency serving on the Council or represented on any working group or committee of the Council shall provide such administrative support as may be necessary, in accordance with law and subject to the availability of appropriations, to enable the agency head or its representative to carry out his responsibilities.
Sec. 8. Report. The Council shall submit an annual report setting forth its assessment of and recommendations for the space policy and strategy of the United States Government.


