“SEC. 1213. POST-SHIPMENT VERIFICATION OF EXPORT OF HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTERS.“(a) Required Post-Shipment Verification.—The Secretary of Commerce shall conduct post-shipment verification of each digital computer with a composite theoretical performance of more than 2,000 millions of theoretical operations per second (MTOPS) that is exported from the United States, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 18, 1998], to a country specified in subsection (b).

“(b) Covered Countries.—For purposes of subsection (a), the countries specified in this subsection are the countries listed as ‘Computer Tier 3’ eligible countries in section 740.7 of title 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on June 10, 1997, subject to modification by the President under section 1211(e).

“(c) Annual Report.—The Secretary of Commerce shall submit to the congressional committees specified in section 1215 an annual report on the results of post-shipment verifications conducted under this section during the preceding year. Each such report shall include a list of all such items exported from the United States to such countries during the previous year and, with respect to each such export, the following:“(1) The destination country.

“(2) The date of export.

“(3) The intended end use and intended end user.

“(4) The results of the post-shipment verification.


“(d) Explanation When Verification Not Conducted.—If a post-shipment verification has not been conducted in accordance with subsection (a) with respect to any such export during the period covered by a report, the Secretary shall include in the report for that period a detailed explanation of the reasons why such a post-shipment verification was not conducted.

“(e) Adjustment of Performance Levels.—Whenever a new composite theoretical performance level is established under section 1211(d), that level shall apply for purposes of subsection (a) of this section in lieu of the level set forth in subsection (a).

