§ 3505. Personnel allowances and benefits(a) Travel, allowances, and related expenses for officers and employees assigned to duty stations outside United StatesUnder such regulations as the Director may prescribe, the Agency, with respect to its officers and employees assigned to duty stations outside the several States of the United States of America, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, but including the District of Columbia, shall—(1)(A) pay the travel expenses of officers and employees of the Agency, including expenses incurred while traveling pursuant to authorized home leave;

(B) pay the travel expenses of members of the family of an officer or employee of the Agency when proceeding to or returning from his post of duty; accompanying him on authorized home leave; or otherwise traveling in accordance with authority granted pursuant to the terms of this chapter or any other Act;

(C) pay the cost of transporting the furniture and household and personal effects of an officer or employee of the Agency to his successive posts of duty and, on the termination of his services, to his residence at time of appointment or to a point not more distant, or, upon retirement, to the place where he will reside;

(D) pay the cost of packing and unpacking, transporting to and from a place of storage, and storing the furniture and household and personal effects of an officer or employee of the Agency, when he is absent from his post of assignment under orders, or when he is assigned to a post to which he cannot take or at which he is unable to use such furniture and household and personal effects, or when it is in the public interest or more economical to authorize storage; but in no instance shall the weight or volume of the effects stored together with the weight or volume of the effects transported exceed the maximum limitations fixed by regulations, when not otherwise fixed by law;

(E) pay the cost of packing and unpacking, transporting to and from a place of storage, and storing the furniture and household and personal effects of an officer or employee of the Agency in connection with assignment or transfer to a new post, from the date of his departure from his last post or from the date of his departure, from his place of residence in the case of a new officer or employee and for not to exceed three months after arrival at the new post, or until the establishment of residence quarters, whichever shall be shorter; and in connection with separation of an officer or employee of the Agency, the cost of packing and unpacking, transporting to and from a place of storage, and storing for a period not to exceed three months, his furniture and household and personal effects; but in no instance shall the weight or volume of the effects stored together with the weight or volume of the effects transported exceed the maximum limitations fixed by regulations, when not otherwise fixed by law.11 So in original. The period probably should be a semicolon.

(F) pay the travel expenses and transportation costs incident to the removal of the members of the family of an officer or employee of the Agency and his furniture and household and personal effects, including automobiles, from a post at which, because of the prevalence of disturbed conditions, there is imminent danger to life and property, and the return of such persons, furniture, and effects to such post upon the cessation of such conditions; or to such other post as may in the meantime have become the post to which such officer or employee has been assigned.


(2) Charge expenses in connection with travel of personnel, their dependents, and transportation of their household goods and personal effects, involving a change of permanent station, to the appropriation for the fiscal year current when any part of either the travel or transportation pertaining to the transfer begins pursuant to previously issued travel and transfer orders, notwithstanding the fact that such travel or transportation may not all be effected during such fiscal year, or the travel and transfer orders may have been issued during the prior fiscal year.

(3)(A) Order to any of the several States of the United States of America (including the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States) on leave of absence each officer or employee of the Agency who was a resident of the United States (as described above) at time of employment, upon completion of two years’ continuous service abroad, or as soon as possible thereafter.

(B) While in the United States (as described in paragraph (3)(A) of this subsection) 22 See Codification note below. on leave, the service of any officer or employee shall be available for work or duties in the Agency or elsewhere as the Director may prescribe; and the time of such work or duty shall not be counted as leave.

(C) Where an officer or employee on leave returns to the United States (as described in paragraph (3)(A) of this subsection),2 leave of absence granted shall be exclusive of the time actually and necessarily occupied in going to and from the United States (as so described) and such time as may be necessarily occupied in awaiting transportation.


(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, transport for or on behalf of an officer or employee of the Agency, a privately owned motor vehicle in any case in which it shall be determined that water, rail, or air transportation of the motor vehicle is necessary or expedient for all or any part of the distance between points of origin and destination, and pay the costs of such transportation. Not more than one motor vehicle of any officer or employee of the Agency may be transported under authority of this paragraph during any four-year period, except that, as a replacement for such motor vehicle, one additional motor vehicle of any such officer or employee may be so transported during such period upon approval, in advance, by the Director and upon a determination, in advance, by the Director that such replacement is necessary for reasons beyond the control of the officer or employee and is in the interest of the Government. After the expiration of a period of four years following the date of transportation under authority of this paragraph of a privately owned motor vehicle of any officer or employee who has remained in continuous service outside the several States of the United States of America, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, but including the District of Columbia, during such period, the transportation of a replacement for such motor vehicle for such officer or employee may be authorized by the Director in accordance with this paragraph.

(5)(A) In the event of illness or injury requiring the hospitalization of an officer or full time employee of the Agency incurred while on assignment abroad, in a locality where there does not exist a suitable hospital or clinic, pay the travel expenses of such officer or employee by whatever means the Director deems appropriate and without regard to the Standardized Government Travel Regulations and section 5731 of title 5, to the nearest locality where a suitable hospital or clinic exists and on the recovery of such officer or employee pay for the travel expenses of the return to the post of duty of such officer or employee. If the officer or employee is too ill to travel unattended, the Director may also pay the travel expenses of an attendant;

(B) Establish a first-aid station and provide for the services of a nurse at a post at which, in the opinion of the Director, sufficient personnel is employed to warrant such a station: Provided, That, in the opinion of the Director, it is not feasible to utilize an existing facility;

(C) In the event of illness or injury requiring hospitalization of an officer or full time employee of the Agency incurred in the line of duty while such person is assigned abroad, pay for the cost of the treatment of such illness or injury at a suitable hospital or clinic;

(D) Provide for the periodic physical examination of officers and employees of the Agency and for the cost of administering inoculation or vaccinations to such officers or employees.


(6) Pay the costs of preparing and transporting the remains of an officer or employee of the Agency or a member of his family who may die while in travel status or abroad, to his home or official station, or to such other place as the Director may determine to be the appropriate place of interment, provided that in no case shall the expense payable be greater than the amount which would have been payable had the destination been the home or official station.

(7) Pay the costs of travel of new appointees and their dependents, and the transportation of their household goods and personal effects, from places of actual residence in foreign countries at time of appointment to places of employment and return to their actual residences at the time of appointment or a point not more distant: Provided, That such appointees agree in writing to remain with the United States Government for a period of not less than twelve months from the time of appointment.Violation of such agreement for personal convenience of an employee or because of separation for misconduct will bar such return payments and, if determined by the Director or his designee to be in the best interests of the United States, any money expended by the United States on account of such travel and transportation shall be considered as a debt due by the individual concerned to the United States.



(b) Allowances and benefits comparable to those paid members of Foreign Service; special requirements; persons detailed or assigned from other agencies; regulations(1) The Director may pay to officers and employees of the Agency, and to persons detailed or assigned to the Agency from other agencies of the Government or from the Armed Forces, allowances and benefits comparable to the allowances and benefits authorized to be paid to members of the Foreign Service under chapter 9 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081 et seq.) or any other provision of law.

(2) The Director may pay allowances and benefits related to officially authorized travel, personnel and physical security activities, operational activities, and cover-related activities (whether or not such allowances and benefits are otherwise authorized under this section or any other provision of law) when payment of such allowances and benefits is necessary to meet the special requirements of work related to such activities. Payment of allowances and benefits under this paragraph shall be in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Director. Rates for allowances and benefits under this paragraph may not be set at rates in excess of those authorized by section 33 So in original. Probably should be “sections”. 5724 and 5724a of title 5 when reimbursement is provided for relocation attributable, in whole or in part, to relocation within the United States.

(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section or any other provision of law relating to the officially authorized travel of Government employees, the Director, in order to reflect Agency requirements not taken into account in the formulation of Government-wide travel procedures, may by regulation—(A) authorize the travel of officers and employees of the Agency, and of persons detailed or assigned to the Agency from other agencies of the Government or from the Armed Forces who are engaged in the performance of intelligence functions, and

(B) provide for payment for such travel, in classes of cases, as determined by the Director, in which such travel is important to the performance of intelligence functions.


(4) Members of the Armed Forces may not receive benefits under both this section and title 37 for the same purpose. The Director and Secretary of Defense shall prescribe joint regulations to carry out the preceding sentence.

(5) Regulations, other than regulations under paragraph (1), issued pursuant to this subsection shall be submitted to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate before such regulations take effect.


(June 20, 1949, ch. 227, § 4, formerly § 5, 63 Stat. 209; renumbered § 4, Pub. L. 85–507, § 21(b)(2), July 7, 1958, 72 Stat. 337; amended Pub. L. 86–707, title III, §§ 301(b), 323, title V, § 511(a)(3), (c)(2)–(5), Sept. 6, 1960, 74 Stat. 795, 798, 800, 801; Pub. L. 97–89, title V, § 501, Dec. 4, 1981, 95 Stat. 1152; Pub. L. 103–359, title IV, § 401, Oct. 14, 1994, 108 Stat. 3427; Pub. L. 108–177, title IV, § 401, Dec. 13, 2003, 117 Stat. 2631.)


References in TextThe Foreign Service Act of 1980, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is Pub. L. 96–465, Oct. 17, 1980, 94 Stat. 2071. Chapter 9 of title I of the Act is classified generally to subchapter IX (§ 4081 et seq.) of chapter 52 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 3901 of Title 22 and Tables.

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 403e of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
In subsec. (a)(3)(B), (C), “this subsection” substituted for “this section” as the probable intent of Congress in view of the designation of the existing provisions of this section as subsec. (a) and the addition of subsec. (b) by Pub. L. 97–89, title V, § 501, Dec. 4, 1981, 95 Stat. 1152.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 4 of act June 20, 1949, was classified to former section 403d of this title prior to repeal by Pub. L. 85–507 and editorial reclassification and renumbering as section 3504 of this title.

Amendments2003—Subsec. (b)(5). Pub. L. 108–177 inserted “, other than regulations under paragraph (1),” after “Regulations”.
1994—Subsec. (a)(5)(A). Pub. L. 103–359, § 401(1)(A)–(D), struck out “, not the result of vicious habits, intemperance, or misconduct on his part,” after “the Agency” and substituted “the Director deems” for “he shall deem”, “section 5731 of title 5” for “section 10 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (47 Stat. 1516; 5 U.S.C. 73b)”, and “the recovery of such officer or employee” for “his recovery”.
Pub. L. 103–359, § 401(1)(E), which directed the substitution of “the return to the post of duty of such officer or employee” for “his return to his post”, was executed by making the substitution for “his return to his post of duty” to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
Subsec. (a)(5)(B). Pub. L. 103–359, § 401(2), substituted “the opinion of the Director” for “his opinion” in two places.
Subsec. (a)(5)(C). Pub. L. 103–359, § 401(3), struck out “, not the result of vicious habits, intemperance, or misconduct on his part,” after “the Agency”.
1981—Pub. L. 97–89 designated existing provisions as subsec. (a) and added subsec. (b).
1960—Pub. L. 86–707, § 323(a), substituted “duty stations outside the several States of the United States of America, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, but including the District of Columbia” for “permanent-duty stations outside the continental United States, its territories, and possessions” in opening provisions, and struck out subsec. (a) designation.
Par. (1)(A). Pub. L. 86–707, § 511(c)(2), substituted “pursuant to authorized home leave” for “pursuant to orders issued by the Director in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a)(3) of this section with regard to the granting of home leave”.
Par. (1)(D). Pub. L. 86–707, § 301(b), authorized payment of cost of packing and unpacking and transporting to and from a place of storage, extended authority to pay storage costs for an officer or employee assigned to a post to which he cannot take or at which he is unable to use his furniture and household personal effects by striking out provisions which restricted such payment only to cases where an emergency exists, empowered Director to pay storage costs when it is in the public interest or more economical to authorize storage, and limited weight or volume of effects stored or weight or volume of effects transported to not more than maximum limitations fixed by regulations, when not otherwise fixed by law.
Par. (1)(E). Pub. L. 86–707, § 301(b), authorized payment of cost of packing and unpacking and transporting to and from a place of storage, permitted payment from date of departure from officer’s or employee’s last post or from date of departure from place of residence in the case of a new officer or employee, empowered Director to pay storage costs in connection with separation of an officer or employee from the Agency, and limited weight or volume of effects stored or weight or volume of effects transported to not more than maximum limitations fixed by regulations, when not otherwise fixed by law.
Par. (3)(A). Pub. L. 86–707, § 511(c)(3), substituted “to any of the several States of the United States of America (including the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States) on leave of absence each officer or employee of the Agency who was a resident of the United States (as described above) at time of employment, upon completion of two years’ continuous service abroad, or as soon as possible thereafter” for “to the United States or its Territories and possessions on leave provided for in sections 30–30b of Title 5 [former Title 5, Executive Departments and Government Officers and Employees], or as such sections may hereafter be amended, every officer and employee of the agency who was a resident of the United States or its Territories and possessions at time of employment, upon completion of two years’ continuous service abroad, or as soon as possible thereafter: Provided, That such officer or employee has accrued to his credit at the time of such order, annual leave sufficient to carry him in a pay status while in the United States for at least a thirty-day period”.
Par. (3)(B). Pub. L. 86–707, § 511(c)(4), substituted “United States (as described in paragraph (3)(A) of this section) on leave, the service of any officer or employee shall be available for work or duties in the Agency or elsewhere as the Director may prescribe” for “continental United States on leave, the service of any officer or employee shall not be available for work or duties except in the agency or for training or for reorientation for work”.
Par. (3)(C). Pub. L. 86–707, § 511(c)(5), substituted “returns to the United States (as described in paragraph (3)(A) of this section)” for “returns to the United States or its Territories and possessions”, and “from the United States (as so described)” for “from the United States or its Territories and possessions”.
Par. (4). Pub. L. 86–707, § 323(b), limited transportation of motor vehicles to one for any officer or employee during any four-year period, and empowered Director to approve transportation of one additional motor vehicle for replacement either during the four-year period or after expiration of four years following date of transportation of a motor vehicle of any officer or employee who has remained in continuous service outside the several States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, but including the District of Columbia, for such period.
Pub. L. 86–707, § 511(a)(3), repealed subsec. (b) which authorized Director to grant allowances in accordance with provisions of section 1131(1), (2) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. See pars. (1)(D) and (1)(E) of this section.

Effective Date of 1981 AmendmentAmendment by Pub. L. 97–89 effective Oct. 1, 1981, see section 806 of Pub. L. 97–89, set out as an Effective Date note under section 1621 of Title 10, Armed Forces.

Implementation of Compensation Reform PlanPub. L. 108–177, title IV, § 405(c), Dec. 13, 2003, 117 Stat. 2633, required the Director of Central Intelligence to submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on the compensation of Central Intelligence Agency employees participating in the pilot project under section 402(b) of Pub. L. 107–306, formerly set out below.
Pub. L. 107–306, title IV, § 402, Nov. 27, 2002, 116 Stat. 2403, as amended by Pub. L. 108–177, title IV, § 405(a), Dec. 13, 2003, 117 Stat. 2632, delayed implementation of a compensation reform plan for Central Intelligence Agency employees, required the Director of Central Intelligence to conduct a pilot project to test the efficacy and fairness of the plan and to submit a report on the project to the congressional intelligence committees, and expressed the sense of Congress that the Director of the National Security Agency should delay implementation of a compensation reform plan for National Security Agency employees and that an employee performance evaluation mechanism should be phased in before implementation of any new compensation plan at either Agency.

Clarification of Terms Applied to Furniture, Household Goods, and Personal Effects in 1960 AmendmentPub. L. 86–707, title III, § 301(d), Sept. 6, 1960, 74 Stat. 796, provided that: “The term ‘furniture and household and personal effects’, as used in the amendments made by this part to the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as amended [amending section 1136 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse], and the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended [amending this section], and the term ‘household goods and personal effects’, as used in the amendments made by this part to the Administrative Expenses Act of 1946, as amended [amending section 73b–1 of former Title 5, Executive Departments and Government Officers and Employees], mean such personal property of an employee and the dependents of such employee as the Secretary of State and the Director of Central Intelligence, as the case may be, with respect to the term ‘furniture and household and personal effects’, and the President, with respect to the term ‘household goods and personal effects’, shall by regulation authorize to be transported or stored under the amendments made by this part to such Acts (including, in emergencies, motor vehicles authorized to be shipped at Government expense). Such motor vehicle shall be excluded from the weight and volume limitations prescribed by the laws set forth in this part.”

[Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the intelligence community deemed to be a reference to the Director of National Intelligence. Reference to the Director of Central Intelligence or the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Director’s capacity as the head of the Central Intelligence Agency deemed to be a reference to the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. See section 1081(a), (b) of Pub. L. 108–458, set out as a note under section 3001 of this title.]
Pub. L. 86–707, title III, § 301(d), Sept. 6, 1960, 74 Stat. 796, was repealed by Pub. L. 89–554, § 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 661, insofar as it is applicable to the Administrative Expenses Act of 1946, as amended.


Executive Order No. 10100
Ex. Ord. No. 10100, Jan. 28, 1950, 15 F.R. 499, which provided for regulations governing the granting of allowances by the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency under this section, was revoked by section 5(a) of Ex. Ord. No. 10903, Jan. 9, 1961, 26 F.R. 217, set out under section 5921 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.


