“SEC. 1002. NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR THE REVIEW OF THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS OF THE UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.“(a) Establishment.—There is established a commission to be known as the ‘National Commission for the Review of the Research and Development Programs of the United States Intelligence Community’ (in this title referred to as the ‘Commission’).

“(b) Composition.—The Commission shall be composed of 12 members, as follows:“(1) The Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence.

“(2) A senior intelligence official of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, as designated by the Secretary of Defense.

“(3) Three members appointed by the majority leader of the Senate, in consultation with the Chairman of the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, one from Members of the Senate and two from private life.

“(4) Two members appointed by the minority leader of the Senate, in consultation with the Vice Chairman of the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, one from Members of the Senate and one from private life.

“(5) Three members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, in consultation with the Chairman of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, one from Members of the House of Representatives and two from private life.

“(6) Two members appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives, in consultation with the ranking member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, one from Members of the House of Representatives and one from private life.


“(c) Membership.—(1) The individuals appointed from private life as members of the Commission shall be individuals who are nationally recognized for expertise, knowledge, or experience in—“(A) research and development programs;

“(B) technology discovery and insertion;

“(C) use of intelligence information by national policymakers and military leaders; or

“(D) the implementation, funding, or oversight of the national security policies of the United States.


“(2) An official who appoints members of the Commission may not appoint an individual as a member of the Commission if, in the judgment of the official, such individual possesses any personal or financial interest in the discharge of any of the duties of the Commission.

“(3) All members of the Commission appointed from private life shall possess an appropriate security clearance in accordance with applicable laws and regulations concerning the handling of classified information.


“(d) Co-Chairs.—(1) The Commission shall have two co-chairs, selected from among the members of the Commission.

“(2) One co-chair of the Commission shall be a member of the Democratic Party, and one co-chair shall be a member of the Republican Party.

“(3) The individuals who serve as the co-chairs of the Commission shall be jointly agreed upon by the President, the majority leader of the Senate, the minority leader of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the minority leader of the House of Representatives.


“(e) Appointment; Initial Meeting.—(1) Members of the Commission shall be appointed not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 27, 2002].

“(2) The Commission shall hold its initial meeting on the date that is 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.


“(f) Meetings; Quorum; Vacancies.—(1) After its initial meeting, the Commission shall meet upon the call of the co-chairs of the Commission.

“(2) Six members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for purposes of conducting business, except that two members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for purposes of receiving testimony.

“(3) Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.

“(4) If vacancies in the Commission occur on any day after 45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 27, 2002], a quorum shall consist of a majority of the members of the Commission as of such day.


“(g) Actions of Commission.—(1) The Commission shall act by resolution agreed to by a majority of the members of the Commission voting and present.

“(2) The Commission may establish panels composed of less than the full membership of the Commission for purposes of carrying out the duties of the Commission under this title. The actions of any such panel shall be subject to the review and control of the Commission. Any findings and determinations made by such a panel shall not be considered the findings and determinations of the Commission unless approved by the Commission.

“(3) Any member, agent, or staff of the Commission may, if authorized by the co-chairs of the Commission, take any action which the Commission is authorized to take pursuant to this title.


“(h) Duties.—The duties of the Commission shall be—“(1) to conduct, until not later than the date on which the Commission submits the report under section 1007(a), the review described in subsection (i); and

“(2) to submit to the congressional intelligence committees, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Secretary of Defense a final report on the results of the review.


“(i) Review.—The Commission shall review the status of research and development programs and activities within the intelligence community, including advanced research and development programs and activities. Such review shall include—“(1) an assessment of the advisability of modifying the scope of research and development for purposes of such programs and activities;

“(2) a review of the particular individual research and development activities under such programs;

“(3) an evaluation of the current allocation of resources for research and development, including whether the allocation of such resources for that purpose should be modified;

“(4) an identification of the scientific and technological fields judged to be of most importance to the intelligence community;

“(5) an evaluation of the relationship between the research and development programs and activities of the intelligence community and the research and development programs and activities of other departments and agencies of the Federal Government; and

“(6) an evaluation of the relationship between the research and development programs and activities of the intelligence community and the research and development programs and activities of the private sector.


