“Sec. 6. [Remuneration for services to applicants; prohibition against certain payments; penalties; forfeitures; recovery of payments]. (a) The total remuneration on account of services rendered or to be rendered to or on behalf of any applicant in connection with any application filed under this Act shall not exceed 5 per centum of the amount paid by the Commission on account of such application. Any agreement to the contrary shall be unlawful and void. Whoever, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, violates this subsection shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both. Where any payment is made in violation of this subsection, the Commission shall take such action as may be appropriate to recover the same.“(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), no sum shall be paid by any claimant directly or indirectly to, or received or accepted by, any former commissioner or employee of the Philippine War Damage Commission or their assigns, or any person employed by or associated with any such former commissioner or employee in connection with the preparation, filing, allowance, or collection of any claim under this Act, as compensation on account of services rendered or as reimbursement on account of expenses incurred in connection with any application filed under this Act. Whoever, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, makes a payment in violation of the provisions of this subsection shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year or both. Whoever, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, receives or accepts a payment in violation of this subsection, shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned for not more than five years or both. Whoever, subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, receives or accepts a payment in violation of this subsection, shall forfeit to the Government of the United States a sum equal to three times the amount of such payment, and the Commission shall take action to recover such sum from the person receiving the payment.

