§ 3072a. Reports on exercise of authority(1) Not later than one year after December 13, 2003, and annually thereafter, the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the exercise of the authority in section 3072 of this title.

(2) Each report under this section shall include, for the one-year period ending on the date of such report, the following:(A) The number of contracts entered into during the period.

(B) The cost of each such contract.

(C) The length of each such contract.

(D) The types of services to be provided under each such contract.

(E) The availability, if any, of United States Government personnel to perform functions similar to the services to be provided under each such contract.

(F) The efforts of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to fill available personnel vacancies, or request additional personnel positions, in areas relating to the intelligence or counterintelligence mission of the Bureau.


(3) Each report under this section shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

(4) In this section—(A) for purposes of the submittal of the classified annex to any report under this section, the term “appropriate committees of Congress” means—(i) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and

(ii) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and


(B) for purposes of the submittal of the unclassified portion of any report under this section, the term “appropriate committees of Congress” means—(i) the committees specified in subparagraph (A);

(ii) the Committees on Appropriations, Governmental Affairs, and the Judiciary of the Senate; and

(iii) the Committees on Appropriations, Government Reform and Oversight, and the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.



(Pub. L. 108–177, title III, § 311(b), Dec. 13, 2003, 117 Stat. 2605.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 409b–1 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.
Section was enacted as part of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004, and not as part of the National Security Act of 1947 which comprises this chapter.


Change of Name
Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Government Reform of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Jan. 6, 1999. Committee on Government Reform of House of Representatives changed to Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of House of Representatives by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.


