§ 3306. Availability to public of certain intelligence funding information(a) Budget requestAt the time that the President submits to Congress the budget for a fiscal year pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, the President shall disclose to the public the aggregate amount of appropriations requested for that fiscal year for the National Intelligence Program.


(b) Amounts appropriated each fiscal yearNot later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Director of National Intelligence shall disclose to the public the aggregate amount of funds appropriated by Congress for the National Intelligence Program for such fiscal year.


(c) Waiver(1) In generalThe President may waive or postpone the disclosure required by subsection (a) or (b) for a fiscal year by submitting to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives—(A) a statement, in unclassified form, that the disclosure required in subsection (a) or (b) for that fiscal year would damage national security; and

(B) a statement detailing the reasons for the waiver or postponement, which may be submitted in classified form.


(2) Submission datesThe President shall submit the statements required under paragraph (1)—(A) in the case of a waiver or postponement of a disclosure required under subsection (a), at the time of the submission of the budget for the fiscal year for which such disclosure is waived or postponed; and

(B) in the case of a waiver or postponement of a disclosure required under subsection (b), not later than 30 days after the date of the end of the fiscal year for which such disclosure is waived or postponed.



(d) DefinitionAs used in this section, the term “National Intelligence Program” has the meaning given the term in section 3003(6) of this title.


(Pub. L. 110–53, title VI, § 601, Aug. 3, 2007, 121 Stat. 335; Pub. L. 111–259, title III, § 364, Oct. 7, 2010, 124 Stat. 2702.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 415c of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Amendments2010—Pub. L. 111–259 amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to availability to public of certain intelligence funding information.


