§ 3105a. Annual assessment of intelligence community performance by function(a) In generalNot later than April 1, 2016, and each year thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall, in consultation with the Functional Managers, submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on covered intelligence functions during the preceding year.


(b) ElementsEach report under subsection (a) shall include for each covered intelligence function for the year covered by such report the following:(1) An identification of the capabilities, programs, and activities of such intelligence function, regardless of the element of the intelligence community that carried out such capabilities, programs, and activities.

(2) A description of the investment and allocation of resources for such intelligence function, including an analysis of the allocation of resources within the context of the National Intelligence Strategy, priorities for recipients of resources, and areas of risk.

(3) A description and assessment of the performance of such intelligence function.

(4) An identification of any issues related to the application of technical interoperability standards in the capabilities, programs, and activities of such intelligence function.

(5) An identification of the operational overlap or need for de-confliction, if any, within such intelligence function.

(6) A description of any efforts to integrate such intelligence function with other intelligence disciplines as part of an integrated intelligence enterprise.

(7) A description of any efforts to establish consistency in tradecraft and training within such intelligence function.

(8) A description and assessment of developments in technology that bear on the future of such intelligence function.

(9) Such other matters relating to such intelligence function as the Director may specify for purposes of this section.


(c) DefinitionsIn this section:(1) The term “covered intelligence functions” means each intelligence function for which a Functional Manager has been established under section 3034a of this title during the year covered by a report under this section.

(2) The term “Functional Manager” means the manager of an intelligence function established under section 3034a of this title.


(July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title V, § 506J, as added Pub. L. 113–126, title III, § 306(a), July 7, 2014, 128 Stat. 1395.)
