§ 70705. Powers of Commission(a) Hearings and Evidence.—A Commission or, on the authority of the Commission, any subcommittee or member thereof, may, for the purpose of carrying out this chapter—(1) hold such hearings and sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, receive such evidence, administer such oaths; and

(2) require, by subpoena or otherwise, the attendance and testimony of such witnesses and the production of such books, records, correspondence, memoranda, papers, and documents,


as the Commission or such designated subcommittee or member may determine advisable.

(b) Contracting.—A Commission may, to such extent and in such amounts as are provided in appropriation Acts, enter into contracts to enable the Commission to discharge its duties under this chapter.

(c) Information From Federal Agencies.—(1) In general.—A Commission may secure directly from any executive department, bureau, agency, board, commission, office, independent establishment, or instrumentality of the Government, information, suggestions, estimates, and statistics for the purposes of this chapter. Each department, bureau, agency, board, commission, office, independent establishment, or instrumentality shall, to the extent authorized by law, furnish such information, suggestions, estimates, and statistics directly to the Commission, upon request made by the Chairman, the chairman of any subcommittee created by a majority of the Commission, or any member designated by a majority of the Commission.

(2) Receipt, handling, storage, and dissemination.—Information shall only be received, handled, stored, and disseminated by members of the Commission and its staff consistent with all applicable statutes, regulations, and Executive orders.


(d) Assistance From Federal Agencies.—(1) General services administration.—The Administrator of General Services shall provide to a Commission on a reimbursable basis administrative support and other services for the performance of the Commission’s tasks.

(2) Other departments and agencies.—In addition to the assistance prescribed in paragraph (1), departments and agencies of the United States may provide to the Commission such services, funds, facilities, staff, and other support services as they may determine advisable and as may be authorized by law.

(3) Administration engineering and safety center.—The Administration Engineering and Safety Center shall provide data and technical support as requested by the Commission.


(Pub. L. 111–314, § 3, Dec. 18, 2010, 124 Stat. 3433.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


7070542 U.S.C. 16845.Pub. L. 109–155, title VIII, § 825, Dec. 30, 2005, 119 Stat. 2942.




