§ 1913. National Language Service Corps(a) Establishment(1) The Secretary of Defense may establish and maintain within the Department of Defense a National Language Service Corps (in this section referred to as the “Corps”).

(2) The purpose of the Corps is to provide a pool of nongovernmental personnel with foreign language skills who, as provided in regulations prescribed under this section, agree to provide foreign language services to the Department of Defense or another department or agency of the United States.


(b) National Security Education BoardIf the Secretary establishes the Corps, the Secretary shall provide for the National Security Education Board to oversee and coordinate the activities of the Corps to such extent and in such manner as determined by the Secretary under paragraph (9) of section 1903(d) of this title.


(c) MembershipTo be eligible for membership in the Corps, a person must be a citizen of the United States authorized by law to be employed in the United States, have attained the age of 18 years, and possess such foreign language skills as the Secretary considers appropriate for membership in the Corps.


(d) TrainingThe Secretary may provide members of the Corps such training as the Secretary prescribes for purposes of this section.


(e) ServiceUpon a determination that it is in the national interests of the United States, the Secretary shall call upon members of the Corps to provide foreign language services to the Department of Defense or another department or agency of the United States. If a member of the Corps is, as of the time of such determination, employed by or performing under a contract for an element of another Federal agency, the Secretary shall first obtain the concurrence of the head of that agency.


(f) FundingThe Secretary may impose fees, in amounts up to full-cost recovery, for language services and technical assistance rendered by members of the Corps. Amounts of fees received under this section shall be credited to the account of the Department providing funds for any costs incurred by the Department in connection with the Corps. Amounts so credited to such account shall be merged with amounts in such account, and shall be available to the same extent, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such account. Any amounts so credited shall remain available until expended.


(Pub. L. 102–183, title VIII, § 813, as added Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title IX, § 954(a), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1895.)
