§ 2625. Plan for tank farm waste at Hanford Nuclear Reservation(a) PlanNot later than June 1, 2014, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for the initial activities (as defined in subsection (d)) for the Waste Treatment and Immobilization Plant and any related, required infrastructure facilities.


(b) Matters includedThe plan under subsection (a) shall include the following:(1) A list of significant requirements needed for the initial activities.

(2) A schedule of significant activities needed to carry out the initial activities.

(3) Actions required to accelerate, to the extent possible, the treatment of lower risk, low-activity waste while continuing efforts to resolve the technical challenges associated with higher risk, high-activity waste.

(4) A description of how the Secretary will—(A) provide adequate protection to workers and the public under the plan; and

(B) incorporate into the plan any significant new science and technical information that was not available before the development of the plan.



(c) Determinations(1) For each significant requirement identified by the Secretary under subsection (b)(1), the Secretary shall include in the plan submitted under subsection (a) a determination regarding whether such requirement is finalized and will be used to inform the initial activities.

(2) For each significant requirement that the Secretary cannot make a finalized determination for under paragraph (1) by the date on which the plan under subsection (a) is submitted to the congressional defense committees, the Secretary shall—(A) include in the plan—(i) a description of the requirement;

(ii) a list of significant activities required to finalize the requirement; and

(iii) the date on which the Secretary anticipates making such determination; and


(B) once the Secretary makes a determination that such a significant requirement is finalized, submit to such committees notification that the requirement is finalized and will be used to inform the initial activities.


(3)(A) Notwithstanding any determination made under paragraph (1) with respect to a significant requirement identified by the Secretary under subsection (b)(1)—(i) the Secretary shall change a requirement if necessary to provide adequate protection to workers and the public; and

(ii) the Secretary may change a requirement if the Secretary determines such change is necessary.


(B) If the Secretary authorizes a change to a requirement under subparagraph (A) that will have a significant material effect on the schedule or cost of the initial activities, the Secretary shall promptly notify the congressional defense committees of such change.

(C) The authority of the Secretary under this paragraph may be delegated only to the Deputy Secretary of Energy.



(d) Initial activities definedIn this section, the term “initial activities” means activities necessary to start the operations of the Waste Treatment and Immobilization Plant at the Hanford Tank Farms of the Hanford Nuclear Reservation, Richland, Washington, with respect to the design, construction, and operating of the Waste Treatment and Immobilization Plant and any related, required infrastructure facilities.


(Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLIV, § 4445, as added Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3127(a), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 1064.)
