§ 2753. Notification of cost overruns for certain Department of Energy projects(a) Establishment of cost and schedule baselines(1) Stockpile life extension projects(A) In generalThe Administrator shall establish a cost and schedule baseline for each nuclear stockpile life extension project of the Administration.


(B) Per unit costThe cost baseline developed under subparagraph (A) shall include, with respect to each life extension project, an estimated cost for each warhead in the project.


(C) Notification to congressional defense committeesNot later than 30 days after establishing a cost and schedule baseline under subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall submit the cost and schedule baseline to the congressional defense committees.



(2) Defense-funded construction projects(A) In generalThe Secretary of Energy shall establish a cost and schedule baseline under the project management protocols of the Department of Energy for each construction project that is—(i) in excess of $50,000,000; and

(ii) carried out by the Department using funds authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year pursuant to a DOE national security authorization.


(B) Notification to congressional defense committeesNot later than 30 days after establishing a cost and schedule baseline under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall submit the cost and schedule baseline to the congressional defense committees.



(3) Defense environmental cleanup projects(A) In generalThe Secretary shall establish a cost and schedule baseline under the project management protocols of the Department of Energy for each defense environmental cleanup project that is—(i) in excess of $50,000,000; and

(ii) carried out by the Department pursuant to such protocols.


(B) Notification to congressional defense committeesNot later than 30 days after establishing a cost and schedule baseline under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall submit the cost and schedule baseline to the congressional defense committees.




(b) Notification of costs exceeding baselineThe Administrator or the Secretary, as applicable, shall notify the congressional defense committees not later than 30 days after determining that—(1) the total cost for a project referred to in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (a) will exceed an amount that is equal to 125 percent of the cost baseline established under subsection (a) for that project; and

(2) in the case of a stockpile life extension project referred to in subsection (a)(1), the cost for any warhead in the project will exceed an amount that is equal to 200 percent of the cost baseline established under subsection (a)(1)(B) for each warhead in that project.


(c) Notification of determination with respect to termination or continuation of projectsNot later than 90 days after submitting a notification under subsection (b) with respect to a project, the Administrator or the Secretary, as applicable, shall—(1) notify the congressional defense committees with respect to whether the project will be terminated or continued; and

(2) if the project will be continued, certify to the congressional defense committees that—(A) a revised cost and schedule baseline has been established for the project and, in the case of a stockpile life extension project referred to in subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(1), a revised estimate of the cost for each warhead in the project has been made;

(B) the continuation of the project is necessary to the mission of the Department of Energy and there is no alternative to the project that would meet the requirements of that mission; and

(C) a management structure is in place adequate to manage and control the cost and schedule of the project.



(d) Applicability of requirements to revised cost and schedule baselinesA revised cost and schedule baseline established under subsection (c) shall—(1) be submitted to the congressional defense committees with the certification submitted under subsection (c)(2); and

(2) be subject to the notification requirements of subsections (b) and (c) in the same manner and to the same extent as a cost and schedule baseline established under subsection (a).


(Pub. L. 107–314, div. D, title XLVII, § 4713, as added Pub. L. 111–383, div. C, title XXXI, § 3114(a), Jan. 7, 2011, 124 Stat. 4510; amended Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3131(t), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2184; Pub. L. 113–66, div. C, title XXXI, § 3146(h)(4), Dec. 26, 2013, 127 Stat. 1081.)

Amendments2013—Subsec. (a)(1)(A). Pub. L. 112–239 struck out “for Nuclear Security” after “Administrator” and struck out “National Nuclear Security” after “life extension project of the”.
Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(h)(4)(A), substituted “cleanup” for “management” in heading.
Subsec. (a)(3)(A). Pub. L. 113–66, § 3146(h)(4)(B), substituted “environmental cleanup” for “environmental management” in introductory provisions.


