§ 2441a. Authorized personnel levels of the Office of the Administrator(a) Full-time equivalent personnel levels(1) Total numberBy October 1, 2014, the total number of employees of the Office of the Administrator may not exceed 1,825.


(2) ExcessFor fiscal year 2015 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Administrator may not exceed the total number of employees authorized under paragraph (1) unless, during each fiscal year in which such total number exceeds 1,825, the Administrator submits to the congressional defense committees a report justifying such excess.



(b) Counting rule(1) A determination of the number of employees in the Office of the Administrator under subsection (a) shall be expressed on a full-time equivalent basis.

(2) Except as provided by paragraph (3), in determining the total number of employees in the Office of the Administrator under subsection (a), the Administrator shall count each employee of the Office without regard to whether the employee is located at the headquarters of the Administration, a site office of the Administration, a service or support center of the Administration, or any other location.

(3) The following employees may not be counted for purposes of determining the total number of employees in the Office of the Administrator under subsection (a):(A) Employees of the Office of Naval Reactors.

(B) Employees of the Office of Secure Transportation.

(C) Members of the Armed Forces detailed to the Administration.

(D) Personnel supporting the Office of the Administrator pursuant to the mobility program under subchapter VI of chapter 33 of title 5 (commonly referred to as the “Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility Program”).



(c) Voluntary early retirementIn accordance with section 3523 of title 5, the Administrator may offer voluntary separation or retirement incentives to meet the total number of employees authorized under subsection (a).


(d) Use of IPAThe Administrator shall ensure that the expertise of the national security laboratories and the nuclear weapons production facilities is made available to the Administration, the Department of Energy, the Department of Defense, other Federal agencies, and Congress through the temporary assignment of personnel from such laboratories and facilities pursuant to the Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility Program and other similar programs.


(Pub. L. 106–65, div. C, title XXXII, § 3241A, as added Pub. L. 112–239, div. C, title XXXI, § 3111(a)(1), Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 2168.)
