“SEC. 5. SANCTIONS.“(a) Visa Ban.—“(1) In general.—The following persons shall be ineligible for a visa to travel to the United States:“(A) Former and present leaders of the SPDC, the Burmese military, or the USDA.

“(B) Officials of the SPDC, the Burmese military, or the USDA involved in the repression of peaceful political activity or in other gross violations of human rights in Burma or in the commission of other human rights abuses, including any current or former officials of the security services and judicial institutions of the SPDC.

“(C) Any other Burmese persons who provide substantial economic and political support for the SPDC, the Burmese military, or the USDA.

“(D) The immediate family members of any person described in subparagraphs (A) through (C).


“(2) Waiver.—The President may waive the visa ban described in paragraph (1) only if the President determines and certifies in writing to Congress that travel by the person seeking such a waiver is in the national interests of the United States.

“(3) Rule of construction.—Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to conflict with the provisions of section 694 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110–161) [121 Stat. 2366], nor shall this subsection be construed to make ineligible for a visa members of ethnic groups in Burma now or previously opposed to the regime who were forced to provide labor or other support to the Burmese military and who are otherwise eligible for admission into the United States.


“(b) Financial Sanctions.—“(1) Blocked property.—No property or interest in property belonging to a person described in subsection (a)(1) may be transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt with if—“(A) the property is located in the United States or within the possession or control of a United States person, including the overseas branch of a United States person; or

“(B) the property comes into the possession or control of a United States person after the date of the enactment of this Act [July 29, 2008].


“(2) Financial transactions.—Except with respect to transactions authorized under Executive Orders 13047 (May 20, 1997) and 13310 (July 28, 2003) [listed in a table below], no United States person may engage in a financial transaction with the SPDC or with a person described in subsection (a)(1).

“(3) Prohibited activities.—Activities prohibited by reason of the blocking of property and financial transactions under this subsection shall include the following:“(A) Payments or transfers of any property, or any transactions involving the transfer of anything of economic value by any United States person, including any United States financial institution and any branch or office of such financial institution that is located outside the United States, to the SPDC or to an individual described in subsection (a)(1).

“(B) The export or reexport directly or indirectly, of any goods, technology, or services by a United States person to the SPDC, to an individual described in subsection (a)(1) or to any entity owned, controlled, or operated by the SPDC or by an individual described in such subsection.



“(c) Authority for Additional Banking Sanctions.—“(1) In general.—The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General of the United States, and the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may prohibit or impose conditions on the opening or maintaining in the United States of a correspondent account or payable-through account by any financial institution (as that term is defined in section 5312 of title 31, United States Code) or financial agency that is organized under the laws of a State, territory, or possession of the United States, for or on behalf of a foreign banking institution, if the Secretary determines that the account might be used—“(A) by a foreign banking institution that holds property or an interest in property belonging to the SPDC or a person described in subsection (a)(1); or

“(B) to conduct a transaction on behalf of the SPDC or a person described in subsection (a)(1).


“(2) Authority to define terms.—The Secretary of the Treasury may, by regulation, further define the terms used in paragraph (1) for purposes of this section, as the Secretary considers appropriate.


“(d) List of Sanctioned Officials.—“(1) In general.—Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [July 29, 2008], the President shall transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a list of—“(A) former and present leaders of the SPDC, the Burmese military, and the USDA;

“(B) officials of the SPDC, the Burmese military, or the USDA involved in the repression of peaceful political activity in Burma or in the commission of other human rights abuses, including any current or former officials of the security services and judicial institutions of the SPDC;

“(C) any other Burmese persons or entities who provide substantial economic and political support for the SPDC, the Burmese military, or the USDA; and

“(D) the immediate family members of any person described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) whom [sic] the President determines effectively controls property in the United States or has benefitted from a financial transaction with any United States person.


“(2) Consideration of other data.—In preparing the list required under paragraph (1), the President shall consider the data already obtained by other countries and entities that apply sanctions against Burma, such as the Australian Government and the European Union.

“(3) Updates.—The President shall transmit to the appropriate congressional committees updated lists of the persons described in paragraph (1) as new information becomes available.

“(4) Identification of information.—The Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury shall devote sufficient resources to the identification of information concerning potential persons to be sanctioned to carry out the purposes described in this Act.


“(e) Rule of Construction.—Nothing in this section may be construed to prohibit any contract or other financial transaction with any nongovernmental humanitarian organization in Burma.

“(f) Exceptions.—“(1) In general.—The prohibitions and restrictions described in subsections (b) and (c) shall not apply to medicine, medical equipment or supplies, food or feed, or any other form of humanitarian assistance provided to Burma.

“(2) Regulatory exceptions.—For the following purposes, the Secretary of State may, by regulation, authorize exceptions to the prohibition and restrictions described in subsection (a), and the Secretary of the Treasury may, by regulation, authorize exceptions to the prohibitions and restrictions described in subsections (b) and (c)—“(A) to permit the United States and Burma to operate their diplomatic missions, and to permit the United States to conduct other official United States Government business in Burma;

“(B) to permit United States citizens to visit Burma; and

“(C) to permit the United States to comply with the United Nations Headquarters Agreement and other applicable international agreements.



“(g) Penalties.—Any person who violates any prohibition or restriction imposed pursuant to subsection (b) or (c) shall be subject to the penalties under section 6 [probably means section 206] of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as for a violation under that Act [50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.].

“(h) Termination of Sanctions.—The sanctions imposed under subsection (a), (b), or (c) shall apply until the President determines and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the SPDC has—“(1) unconditionally released all political prisoners, including Aung San Suu Kyi and other members of the National League for Democracy;

“(2) entered into a substantive dialogue with democratic forces led by the National League for Democracy and the ethnic minorities of Burma on transitioning to democratic government under the rule of law; and

“(3) allowed humanitarian access to populations affected by armed conflict in all regions of Burma.


“(i) Waiver.—The President may waive the sanctions described in subsections (b) and (c) if the President determines and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that such waiver is in the national interest of the United States.

