§ 20986. Study and report on free absentee ballot postage(a) Study on the establishment of a free absentee ballot postage program(1) In generalThe Commission, in consultation with the Postal Service, shall conduct a study on the feasibility and advisability of the establishment of a program under which the Postal Service shall waive or otherwise reduce the amount of postage applicable with respect to absentee ballots submitted by voters in general elections for Federal office (other than balloting materials mailed under section 3406 of title 39) that does not apply with respect to the postage required to send the absentee ballots to voters.


(2) Public surveyAs part of the study conducted under paragraph (1), the Commission shall conduct a survey of potential beneficiaries under the program described in such paragraph, including the elderly and disabled, and shall take into account the results of such survey in determining the feasibility and advisability of establishing such a program.



(b) Report(1) SubmissionNot later than the date that is 1 year after October 29, 2002, the Commission shall submit to Congress a report on the study conducted under subsection (a)(1) together with recommendations for such legislative and administrative action as the Commission determines appropriate.


(2) CostsThe report submitted under paragraph (1) shall contain an estimate of the costs of establishing the program described in subsection (a)(1).


(3) ImplementationThe report submitted under paragraph (1) shall contain an analysis of the feasibility of implementing the program described in subsection (a)(1) with respect to the absentee ballots to be submitted in the general election for Federal office held in 2004.


(4) Recommendations regarding the elderly and disabledThe report submitted under paragraph (1) shall—(A) include recommendations on ways that program described in subsection (a)(1) would target elderly individuals and individuals with disabilities; and

(B) identify methods to increase the number of such individuals who vote in elections for Federal office.



(c) Postal Service definedThe term “Postal Service” means the United States Postal Service established under section 201 of title 39.


(Pub. L. 107–252, title II, § 246, Oct. 29, 2002, 116 Stat. 1691.)

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 15386 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.


