“SEC. 709. DEFINITIONS.“In this title:“(1) Agency.—(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term ‘agency’ means the following:“(i) An Executive agency, as that term is defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.

“(ii) A military department, as that term is defined in section 102 of such title.

“(iii) Any other entity in the executive branch that comes into the possession of classified information.


“(B) The term does not include the Board.


“(2) Classified material or record.—The terms ‘classified material’ and ‘classified record’ include any correspondence, memorandum, book, plan, map, drawing, diagram, pictorial or graphic work, photograph, film, microfilm, sound recording, videotape, machine readable records, and other documentary material, regardless of physical form or characteristics, that has been determined pursuant to Executive order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure in the interests of the national security of the United States.

“(3) Declassification.—The term ‘declassification’ means the process by which records or materials that have been classified are determined no longer to require protection from unauthorized disclosure to protect the national security of the United States.

“(4) Donated historical material.—The term ‘donated historical material’ means collections of personal papers donated or given to a Federal Presidential library or other archival repository under a deed of gift or otherwise.

“(5) Federal presidential library.—The term ‘Federal Presidential library’ means a library operated and maintained by the United States Government through the National Archives and Records Administration under the applicable provisions of the Federal Records Act of 1950 [see References in Text note under section 450j of Title 25, Indians].

“(6) National security.—The term ‘national security’ means the national defense or foreign relations of the United States.

“(7) Records or materials of extraordinary public interest.—The term ‘records or materials of extraordinary public interest’ means records or materials that—“(A) demonstrate and record the national security policies, actions, and decisions of the United States, including—“(i) policies, events, actions, and decisions which led to significant national security outcomes; and

“(ii) the development and evolution of significant United States national security policies, actions, and decisions;


“(B) will provide a significantly different perspective in general from records and materials publicly available in other historical sources; and

“(C) would need to be addressed through ad hoc record searches outside any systematic declassification program established under Executive order.


“(8) Records of archival value.—The term ‘records of archival value’ means records that have been determined by the Archivist of the United States to have sufficient historical or other value to warrant their continued preservation by the Federal Government.

