“SEC. 14. DEFINITIONS.“As used in this Act:“(1) Act of international terrorism.—The term ‘act of international terrorism’ means an act—“(A) which is violent or dangerous to human life and that is a violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any State or that would be a criminal violation if committed within the jurisdiction of the United States or any State; and

“(B) which appears to be intended—“(i) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population;

“(ii) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or

“(iii) to affect the conduct of a government by assassination or kidnapping.



“(2) Appropriate congressional committees.—The term ‘appropriate congressional committees’ means the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means, the Committee on Financial Services, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.

“(3) Component part.—The term ‘component part’ has the meaning given that term in section 11A(e)(1) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2410a(e)(1)).

“(4) Credible information.—The term ‘credible information’, with respect to a person—“(A) includes—“(i) a public announcement by the person that the person has engaged in an activity described in subsection (a) or (b) of section 5; and

“(ii) information set forth in a report to stockholders of the person indicating that the person has engaged in such an activity; and


“(B) may include, in the discretion of the President—“(i) an announcement by the Government of Iran that the person has engaged in such an activity; or

“(ii) information indicating that the person has engaged in such an activity that is set forth in—     “(I) a report of the Government Accountability Office, the Energy Information Administration, or the Congressional Research Service; or

     “(II) a report or publication of a similarly reputable governmental organization or trade or industry organization.




“(5) Develop and development.—To ‘develop’, or the ‘development’ of, petroleum resources means the exploration for, or the extraction, refining, or transportation by pipeline of, petroleum resources.

“(6) Financial institution.—The term ‘financial institution’ includes—“(A) a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(1)]), including a branch or agency of a foreign bank (as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 [12 U.S.C. 3101(b)(7)]);

“(B) a credit union;

“(C) a securities firm, including a broker or dealer;

“(D) an insurance company, including an agency or underwriter; and

“(E) any other company that provides financial services.


“(7) Finished product.—The term ‘finished product’ has the meaning given that term in section 11A(e)(2) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2410a(e)(2)).

“(8) Foreign person.—The term ‘foreign person’ means—“(A) an individual who is not a United States person or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence into the United States; or

“(B) a corporation, partnership, or other nongovernmental entity which is not a United States person.


“(9) Goods and technology.—The terms ‘goods’ and ‘technology’ have the meanings given those terms in section 16 of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2415).

“(10) Investment.—The term ‘investment’ means any of the following activities if such activity is undertaken pursuant to an agreement, or pursuant to the exercise of rights under such an agreement, that is entered into with the Government of Iran or a nongovernmental entity in Iran on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [Aug. 5, 1996]:“(A) The entry into a contract that includes responsibility for the development of petroleum resources located in Iran, or the entry into a contract providing for the general supervision and guarantee of another person’s performance of such a contract.

“(B) The purchase of a share of ownership, including an equity interest, in that development.

“(C) The entry into a contract providing for the participation in royalties, earnings, or profits in that development, without regard to the form of the participation.


For purposes of this paragraph, an amendment or other modification that is made, on or after June 13, 2001, to an agreement or contract shall be treated as the entry of an agreement or contract.

“(11) Iran.—The term ‘Iran’ includes any agency or instrumentality of Iran.

“(12) Iranian diplomats and representatives of other government and military or quasi-governmental institutions of iran.—The term ‘Iranian diplomats and representatives of other government and military or quasi-governmental institutions of Iran’ includes employees, representatives, or affiliates of Iran’s—“(A) Foreign Ministry;

“(B) Ministry of Intelligence and Security;

“(C) Revolutionary Guard Corps;

“(D) Crusade for Reconstruction;

“(E) Qods (Jerusalem) Forces;

“(F) Interior Ministry;

“(G) Foundation for the Oppressed and Disabled;

“(H) Prophet’s Foundation;

“(I) June 5th Foundation;

“(J) Martyr’s Foundation;

“(K) Islamic Propagation Organization; and

“(L) Ministry of Islamic Guidance.


“(13) Knowingly.—The term ‘knowingly’, with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the circumstance, or the result.

“(14) Nuclear explosive device.—The term ‘nuclear explosive device’ means any device, whether assembled or disassembled, that is designed to produce an instantaneous release of an amount of nuclear energy from special nuclear material (as defined in section 11(aa) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [42 U.S.C. 2014(aa)]) that is greater than the amount of energy that would be released from the detonation of one pound of trinitrotoluene (TNT).

“(15) Person.—“(A) In general.—The term ‘person’ means—“(i) a natural person;

“(ii) a corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, financial institution, insurer, underwriter, guarantor, and any other business organization, any other nongovernmental entity, organization, or group, and any governmental entity operating as a business enterprise; and

“(iii) any successor to any entity described in clause (ii).


“(B) Application to governmental entities.—The term ‘person’ does not include a government or governmental entity that is not operating as a business enterprise.


“(16) Petrochemical product.—The term ‘petrochemical product’ includes any aromatic, olefin, or synthesis gas, and any derivative of such a gas, including ethylene, propylene, butadiene, benzene, toluene, xylene, ammonia, methanol, and urea.

“(17) Petroleum resources.—The term ‘petroleum resources’ includes petroleum, refined petroleum products, oil or liquefied natural gas, natural gas resources, oil or liquefied natural gas tankers, and products used to construct or maintain pipelines used to transport oil or liquefied natural gas.

“(18) Refined petroleum products.—The term ‘refined petroleum products’ means diesel, gasoline, jet fuel (including naphtha-type and kerosene-type jet fuel), and aviation gasoline.

“(19) Services.—The term ‘services’ includes software, hardware, financial, professional consulting, engineering, and specialized energy information services, energy-related technical assistance, and maintenance and repairs.

“(20) United states or state.—The term ‘United States’ or ‘State’ means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.

“(21) United states person.—The term ‘United States person’ means—“(A) a natural person who is a citizen of the United States or who owes permanent allegiance to the United States; and

“(B) a corporation or other legal entity which is organized under the laws of the United States, any State or territory thereof, or the District of Columbia, if natural persons described in subparagraph (A) own, directly or indirectly, more than 50 percent of the outstanding capital stock or other beneficial interest in such legal entity.”


