§ 40306. Space grant college and space grant regional consortium(a) Designation and Qualifications.—(1) Authority to designate.—The Administrator may designate—(A) any institution of higher education as a space grant college; and

(B) any association or other alliance of 2 or more persons, other than individuals, as a space grant regional consortium.


(2) Space grant college requirements.—No institution of higher education may be designated as a space grant college unless the Administrator finds that such institution—(A) is maintaining a balanced program of research, education, training, and advisory services in fields related to space;

(B) will act in accordance with such guidelines as are prescribed under subsection (b)(2); and

(C) meets such other qualifications as the Administrator considers necessary or appropriate.


(3) Space grant regional consortium requirements.—No association or other alliance of 2 or more persons may be designated as a space grant regional consortium unless the Administrator finds that such association or alliance—(A) is established for the purpose of sharing expertise, research, educational facilities or training facilities, and other capabilities in order to facilitate research, education, training, and advisory services in any field related to space;

(B) will encourage and follow a regional approach to solving problems or meeting needs relating to space, in cooperation with appropriate space grant colleges, space grant programs, and other persons in the region;

(C) will act in accordance with such guidelines as are prescribed under subsection (b)(2); and

(D) meets such other qualifications as the Administrator considers necessary or appropriate.



(b) Qualifications and Guidelines.—The Administrator shall by regulation prescribe—(1) the qualifications required to be met under paragraphs (2)(C) and (3)(D) of subsection (a); and

(2) guidelines relating to the activities and responsibilities of space grant colleges and space grant regional consortia.


(c) Suspension or Termination of Designation.—The Administrator may, for cause and after an opportunity for hearing, suspend or terminate any designation under subsection (a).

(Pub. L. 111–314, § 3, Dec. 18, 2010, 124 Stat. 3386.)











Historical and Revision Notes


RevisedSectionSource (U.S. Code)Source (Statutes at Large)


4030642 U.S.C. 2486f.Pub. L. 100–147, title II, § 208, Oct. 30, 1987, 101 Stat. 873.




