§ 3203. Voluntary services(a) Authority to accept servicesNotwithstanding section 1342 of title 31 and subject to subsection (b) of this section, the Foreign Languages Program under section 3201 of this title shall include authority for the head of a covered element of the intelligence community to accept from any dedicated personnel voluntary services in support of the activities authorized by this part.


(b) Requirements and limitations(1) In accepting voluntary services from an individual under subsection (a) of this section, the head of a covered element of the intelligence community shall—(A) supervise the individual to the same extent as the head of the element would supervise a compensated employee of that element providing similar services; and

(B) ensure that the individual is licensed, privileged, has appropriate educational or experiential credentials, or is otherwise qualified under applicable law or regulations to provide such services.


(2) In accepting voluntary services from an individual under subsection (a) of this section, the head of a covered element of the intelligence community may not—(A) place the individual in a policymaking position, or other position performing inherently governmental functions; or

(B) compensate the individual for the provision of such services.



(c) Authority to recruit and train individuals providing servicesThe head of a covered element of the intelligence community may recruit and train individuals to provide voluntary services under subsection (a) of this section.


(d) Status of individuals providing services(1) Subject to paragraph (2), while providing voluntary services under subsection (a) of this section or receiving training under subsection (c) of this section, an individual shall be considered to be an employee of the Federal Government only for purposes of the following provisions of law:(A) Section 552a of title 5 (relating to maintenance of records on individuals).

(B) Chapter 11 of title 18 (relating to conflicts of interest).


(2)(A) With respect to voluntary services under paragraph (1) provided by an individual that are within the scope of the services accepted under that paragraph, the individual shall be deemed to be a volunteer of a governmental entity or nonprofit institution for purposes of the Volunteer Protection Act of 1997 (42 U.S.C. 14501 et seq.).

(B) In the case of any claim against such an individual with respect to the provision of such services, section 4(d) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 14503(d)) shall not apply.


(3) Acceptance of voluntary services under this section shall have no bearing on the issuance or renewal of a security clearance.


(e) Reimbursement of incidental expenses(1) The head of a covered element of the intelligence community may reimburse an individual for incidental expenses incurred by the individual in providing voluntary services under subsection (a) of this section. The head of a covered element of the intelligence community shall determine which expenses are eligible for reimbursement under this subsection.

(2) Reimbursement under paragraph (1) may be made from appropriated or nonappropriated funds.


(f) Authority to install equipment(1) The head of a covered element of the intelligence community may install telephone lines and any necessary telecommunication equipment in the private residences of individuals who provide voluntary services under subsection (a) of this section.

(2) The head of a covered element of the intelligence community may pay the charges incurred for the use of equipment installed under paragraph (1) for authorized purposes.

(3) Notwithstanding section 1348 of title 31, the head of a covered element of the intelligence community may use appropriated funds or nonappropriated funds of the element in carrying out this subsection.


(July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title X, § 1013, as added Pub. L. 108–487, title VI, § 612(a)(2), Dec. 23, 2004, 118 Stat. 3957.)


References in TextThe Volunteer Protection Act of 1997, referred to in subsec. (d)(2)(A), is Pub. L. 105–19, June 18, 1997, 111 Stat. 218, which is classified generally to chapter 139 (§ 14501 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 14501 of Title 42 and Tables.

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 441j–2 of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.


