“SEC. 1608. DEFINITIONS.“For purposes of this title:“(1) The term ‘advanced conventional weapons’ includes—“(A) such long-range precision-guided munitions, fuel air explosives, cruise missiles, low observability aircraft, other radar evading aircraft, advanced military aircraft, military satellites, electromagnetic weapons, and laser weapons as the President determines destabilize the military balance or enhance offensive capabilities in destabilizing ways;

“(B) such advanced command, control, and communications systems, electronic warfare systems, or intelligence collection systems as the President determines destabilize the military balance or enhance offensive capabilities in destabilizing ways; and

“(C) such other items or systems as the President may, by regulation, determine necessary for purposes of this title.


“(2) The term ‘cruise missile’ means guided missiles that use aerodynamic lift to offset gravity and propulsion to counteract drag.

“(3) The term ‘goods or technology’ means—“(A) any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply, or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment; and

“(B) any information and know-how (whether in tangible form, such as models, prototypes, drawings, sketches, diagrams, blueprints, or manuals, or in intangible form, such as training or technical services) that can be used to design, produce, manufacture, utilize, or reconstruct goods, including computer software and technical data.


“(4) The term ‘person’ means any United States or foreign individual, partnership, corporation, or other form of association, or any of their successor entities, parents, or subsidiaries.

“(5) The term ‘sanctioned country’ means a country against which sanctions are required to be imposed pursuant to section 1605.

“(6) The term ‘sanctioned person’ means a person that makes a transfer described in section 1604(a).

“(7) The term ‘United States assistance’ means—“(A) any assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.), other than urgent humanitarian assistance or medicine;

“(B) sales and assistance under the Arms Export Control Act [22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.];

“(C) financing by the Commodity Credit Corporation for export sales of agricultural commodities; and

“(D) financing under the Export-Import Bank Act [of 1945] [22 U.S.C. 635 et seq.].”


