“SEC. 6. PROHIBITION ON UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.“(a) Certification Requirement.—The head of each executive agency shall ensure that each contract entered into by such executive agency for the procurement of goods or services includes a clause that requires the contractor to certify to the contracting officer that the contractor does not conduct business operations in Sudan described in section 3(d).

“(b) Remedies.—“(1) In general.—The head of an executive agency may impose remedies as provided in this subsection if the head of the executive agency determines that the contractor has submitted a false certification under subsection (a) after the date the Federal Acquisition Regulation is amended under subsection (e) to implement the requirements of this section.

“(2) Termination.—The head of an executive agency may terminate a covered contract upon the determination of a false certification under paragraph (1).

“(3) Suspension and debarment.—The head of an executive agency may debar or suspend a contractor from eligibility for Federal contracts upon the determination of a false certification under paragraph (1). The debarment period may not exceed 3 years.

“(4) Inclusion on list of parties excluded from federal procurement and nonprocurement programs.—The Administrator of General Services shall include on the List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs maintained by the Administrator under part 9 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation issued under section 25 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act ([former] 41 U.S.C. 421) [see 41 U.S.C. 1303] each contractor that is debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment or suspension, or declared ineligible by the head of an executive agency on the basis of a determination of a false certification under paragraph (1).

“(5) Rule of construction.—This section shall not be construed to limit the use of other remedies available to the head of an executive agency or any other official of the Federal Government on the basis of a determination of a false certification under paragraph (1).


“(c) Waiver.—“(1) In general.—The President may waive the requirement of subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis if the President determines and certifies in writing to the appropriate congressional committees that it is in the national interest to do so.

“(2) Reporting requirement.—Not later than April 15, 2008, and semi-annually thereafter, the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on waivers granted under paragraph (1).


“(d) Implementation Through the Federal Acquisition Regulation.—Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act [Dec. 31, 2007], the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall amend the Federal Acquisition Regulation issued pursuant to section 25 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act ([former] 41 U.S.C. 421) [see 41 U.S.C. 1303] to provide for the implementation of the requirements of this section.

“(e) Report.—Not later than one year after the date the Federal Acquisition Regulation is amended under subsection (e) to implement the requirements of this section, the Administrator of General Services, with the assistance of other executive agencies, shall submit to the Office of Management and Budget and the appropriate congressional committees a report on the actions taken under this section.

