“SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.“In this Act:“(1) Appropriate congressional committees.—The term ‘appropriate congressional committees’ means—“(A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and

“(B) the Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.


“(2) Business operations.—The term ‘business operations’ means engaging in commerce in any form in Sudan, including by acquiring, developing, maintaining, owning, selling, possessing, leasing, or operating equipment, facilities, personnel, products, services, personal property, real property, or any other apparatus of business or commerce.

“(3) Executive agency.—The term ‘executive agency’ has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act ([former] 41 U.S.C. 403) [see 41 U.S.C. 133].

“(4) Government of sudan.—The term ‘Government of Sudan’—“(A) means the government in Khartoum, Sudan, which is led by the National Congress Party (formerly known as the National Islamic Front) or any successor government formed on or after October 13, 2006 (including the coalition National Unity Government agreed upon in the Comprehensive Peace Agreement for Sudan); and

“(B) does not include the regional government of southern Sudan.


“(5) Marginalized populations of sudan.—The term ‘marginalized populations of Sudan’ refers to—“(A) adversely affected groups in regions authorized to receive assistance under section 8(c) of the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act [of 2006] (Public Law 109–344; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note); and

“(B) marginalized areas in Northern Sudan described in section 4(9) of such Act.


“(6) Military equipment.—The term ‘military equipment’ means—“(A) weapons, arms, military supplies, and equipment that readily may be used for military purposes, including radar systems or military-grade transport vehicles; or

“(B) supplies or services sold or provided directly or indirectly to any force actively participating in armed conflict in Sudan.


“(7) Mineral extraction activities.—The term ‘mineral extraction activities’ means exploring, extracting, processing, transporting, or wholesale selling or trading of elemental minerals or associated metal alloys or oxides (ore), including gold, copper, chromium, chromite, diamonds, iron, iron ore, silver, tungsten, uranium, and zinc.

“(8) Oil-related activities.—“(A) In general.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term ‘oil-related activities’ means—“(i) exporting, extracting, producing, refining, processing, exploring for, transporting, selling, or trading oil; and

“(ii) constructing, maintaining, or operating a pipeline, refinery, or other oilfield infrastructure.


“(B) Exclusions.—A person shall not be considered to be involved in an oil-related activity if—“(i) the person is involved in the retail sale of gasoline or related consumer products in Sudan but is not involved in any other activity described in subparagraph (A); or

“(ii) the person is involved in leasing, or owns, rights to an oil block in Sudan but is not involved in any other activity described in subparagraph (A).



“(9) Person.—The term ‘person’ means—“(A) a natural person, corporation, company, business association, partnership, society, trust, any other nongovernmental entity, organization, or group;

“(B) any governmental entity or instrumentality of a government, including a multilateral development institution (as defined in section 1701(c)(3) of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(3))); and

“(C) any successor, subunit, parent company or subsidiary of any entity described in subparagraph (A) or (B).


“(10) Power production activities.—The term ‘power production activities’ means any business operation that involves a project commissioned by the National Electricity Corporation of Sudan or other similar entity of the Government of Sudan whose purpose is to facilitate power generation and delivery, including establishing power-generating plants or hydroelectric dams, selling or installing components for the project, or providing service contracts related to the installation or maintenance of the project.

“(11) State.—The term ‘State’ means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

“(12) State or local government.—The term ‘State or local government’ includes—“(A) any State and any agency or instrumentality thereof;

“(B) any local government within a State, and any agency or instrumentality thereof;

“(C) any other governmental instrumentality; and

“(D) any public institution of higher education within the meaning of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.) [and 42 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.].


