§ 3071. National Security Agency voluntary separation(a) Short titleThis section may be cited as the “National Security Agency Voluntary Separation Act”.


(b) DefinitionsFor purposes of this section—(1) the term “Director” means the Director of the National Security Agency; and

(2) the term “employee” means an employee of the National Security Agency, serving under an appointment without time limitation, who has been currently employed by the National Security Agency for a continuous period of at least 12 months prior to the effective date of the program established under subsection (c) of this section, except that such term does not include—(A) a reemployed annuitant under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5 or another retirement system for employees of the Government; or

(B) an employee having a disability on the basis of which such employee is or would be eligible for disability retirement under any of the retirement systems referred to in subparagraph (A).



(c) Establishment of programNotwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director, in his sole discretion, may establish a program under which employees may, after October 1, 2000, be eligible for early retirement, offered separation pay to separate from service voluntarily, or both.


(d) Early retirementAn employee who—(1) is at least 50 years of age and has completed 20 years of service; or

(2) has at least 25 years of service,


may, pursuant to regulations promulgated under this section, apply and be retired from the National Security Agency and receive benefits in accordance with chapter 83 or 84 of title 5 if the employee has not less than 10 years of service with the National Security Agency.

(e) Amount of separation pay and treatment for other purposes(1) AmountSeparation pay shall be paid in a lump sum and shall be equal to the lesser of—(A) an amount equal to the amount the employee would be entitled to receive under section 5595(c) of title 5 if the employee were entitled to payment under such section; or

(B) $25,000.


(2) TreatmentSeparation pay shall not—(A) be a basis for payment, and shall not be included in the computation, of any other type of Government benefit; and

(B) be taken into account for the purpose of determining the amount of any severance pay to which an individual may be entitled under section 5595 of title 5 based on any other separation.



(f) Reemployment restrictionsAn employee who receives separation pay under such program may not be reemployed by the National Security Agency for the 12-month period beginning on the effective date of the employee’s separation. An employee who receives separation pay under this section on the basis of a separation occurring on or after March 30, 1994, and accepts employment with the Government of the United States within 5 years after the date of the separation on which payment of the separation pay is based shall be required to repay the entire amount of the separation pay to the National Security Agency. If the employment is with an Executive agency (as defined by section 105 of title 5), the Director of the Office of Personnel Management may, at the request of the head of the agency, waive the repayment if the individual involved possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified applicant available for the position. If the employment is with an entity in the legislative branch, the head of the entity or the appointing official may waive the repayment if the individual involved possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified applicant available for the position. If the employment is with the judicial branch, the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts may waive the repayment if the individual involved possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified applicant available for the position.


(g) Bar on certain employment(1) BarAn employee may not be separated from service under this section unless the employee agrees that the employee will not—(A) act as agent or attorney for, or otherwise represent, any other person (except the United States) in any formal or informal appearance before, or, with the intent to influence, make any oral or written communication on behalf of any other person (except the United States) to the National Security Agency; or

(B) participate in any manner in the award, modification, or extension of any contract for property or services with the National Security Agency,


during the 12-month period beginning on the effective date of the employee’s separation from service.

(2) PenaltyAn employee who violates an agreement under this subsection shall be liable to the United States in the amount of the separation pay paid to the employee pursuant to this section multiplied by the proportion of the 12-month period during which the employee was in violation of the agreement.



(h) LimitationsUnder this program, early retirement and separation pay may be offered only—(1) with the prior approval of the Director;

(2) for the period specified by the Director; and

(3) to employees within such occupational groups or geographic locations, or subject to such other similar limitations or conditions, as the Director may require.


(i) RegulationsBefore an employee may be eligible for early retirement, separation pay, or both, under this section, the Director shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section.


(j) Notification of exercise of authorityThe Director may not make an offer of early retirement, separation pay, or both, pursuant to this section until 15 days after submitting to the congressional intelligence committees a report describing the occupational groups or geographic locations, or other similar limitations or conditions, required by the Director under subsection (h) of this section, and includes 11 So in original. Probably should be “including”. the proposed regulations issued pursuant to subsection (i) of this section.


(k) Remittance of fundsIn addition to any other payment that is required to be made under subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, the National Security Agency shall remit to the Office of Personnel Management for deposit in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, an amount equal to 15 percent of the final basic pay of each employee to whom a voluntary separation payment has been or is to be paid under this section. The remittance required by this subsection shall be in lieu of any remittance required by section 4(a) of the Federal Workforce Restructuring Act of 1994 (5 U.S.C. 8331 note).


(July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title III, § 301, as added Pub. L. 106–567, title III, § 304(a), Dec. 27, 2000, 114 Stat. 2836; amended Pub. L. 107–306, title III, § 353(b)(2)(A), title VIII, § 841(b), Nov. 27, 2002, 116 Stat. 2402, 2431.)


References in TextSection 4(a) of the Federal Workforce Restructuring Act of 1994, referred to in subsec. (k), is section 4(a) of Pub. L. 103–226, which is set out as a note under section 8331 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

Codification
Section was formerly classified to section 409a of this title prior to editorial reclassification and renumbering as this section.

Prior ProvisionsA prior section 301 of act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title III, 61 Stat. 507; Apr. 2, 1949, ch. 47, § 2, 63 Stat. 31; Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412, § 10(a), 63 Stat. 585, was classified to sections 171b and 171c–1 of former Title 5, Executive Departments and Government Officers and Employees, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 89–554, § 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 632.

Amendments2002—Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 107–306, § 841(b), substituted “Notification of exercise of authority” for “Reporting requirements” in subsec. heading and struck out “(1) Notification.—” before “The Director may” and par. (2) which read as follows:
“(2) Annual report.—The Director shall submit to the President and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate an annual report on the effectiveness and costs of carrying out this section.”
Pub. L. 107–306, § 353(b)(2)(A), substituted “congressional intelligence committees” for “Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate”.


