“SEC. 3. APPLICATION OF MEASURES TO CERTAIN FOREIGN PERSONS.“(a) Application of Measures.—Subject to sections 4 and 5, the President is authorized to apply with respect to each foreign person identified in a report submitted pursuant to section 2(a), for such period of time as he may determine, any or all of the measures described in subsection (b).

“(b) Description of Measures.—The measures referred to in subsection (a) are the following:“(1) Executive order no. 12938 prohibitions.—The measures set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 4 of Executive Order No. 12938.

“(2) Arms export prohibition.—Prohibition on United States Government sales to that foreign person of any item on the United States Munitions List as in effect on August 8, 1995, and termination of sales to that person of any defense articles, defense services, or design and construction services under the Arms Export Control Act [22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.].

“(3) Dual use export prohibition.—Denial of licenses and suspension of existing licenses for the transfer to that person of items the export of which is controlled under the Export Administration Act of 1979 [50 U.S.C. App. 2401 et seq.] or the Export Administration Regulations.


“(c) Effective Date of Measures.—Measures applied pursuant to subsection (a) shall be effective with respect to a foreign person no later than—“(1) 90 days after the report identifying the foreign person is submitted, if the report is submitted on or before the date required by section 2(b);

“(2) 90 days after the date required by section 2(b) for submitting the report, if the report identifying the foreign person is submitted within 60 days after that date; or

“(3) on the date that the report identifying the foreign person is submitted, if that report is submitted more than 60 days after the date required by section 2(b).


“(d) Publication in Federal Register.—The application of measures to a foreign person pursuant to subsection (a) shall be announced by notice published in the Federal Register.

